title,body,num_comments,up_votes,age,subreddit
FAFSA/financial aid verification questions? Get help here!,"**All questions about federal student aid, the FAFSA, and financial aid verification must be posted on this thread. All standalone posts on these topics will be removed.**

If you want money for college, you should submit a [FAFSA](http://www.fafsa.gov) if you are [eligible to do so](https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/eligibility).

2019-2020 school year: Use the 2019-2020 FAFSA, which opened October 1, 2018. This one requires 2017 tax information.

2020-2021 school year: Use the 2020-2021 FAFSA, which opens October 1, 2019. This one requires 2018 tax information.

**First time? Here's a step-by-step guide to the financial aid process.**

1. Create an [FSA ID](http://www.fsaid.ed.gov). This is your legal electronic signature to sign your FAFSA. It's linked to your Social Security number. If you are a dependent student, one of your parents will need to make one as well. If your parent already has an FSA ID (for themselves or for other children), they must use their existing FSA ID.

2. Gather all necessary documents, including bank statements, tax information (W-2s, tax returns), any records of untaxed income, etc.

3. Start the FAFSA! If you or your parent are given the option to use the [IRS Data Retrieval Tool](https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/resources/irs-drt-text), use it! It will drag tax information from the IRS straight to the FAFSA and save you a lot of time.

I'm a moderator here on /r/college and an admissions and financial aid expert in the real world. These FAFSA help threads have been a pet project for many years and I enjoy helping you all, wherever you live. Ask away! *I will always respond.*",458,93,49.88950644910887,college
Do you buy the parking permits?,"This is geared more towards CSUs but is it actually worth it to get a parking pass for hundreds of dollars, without being guaranteed a parking space anyways? I'm transferring next fall and driving/parking is my worst nightmare. I'm not sure if I'll be able to drive and commute, or  take public transportation, OR just dorm. Each of the schools I'm applying to are 30min-1hr drives. What did/would you do?",0,1,0.015425003248232382,college
Anybody else feel this way?,"I’ve always been considered the “smart kid”. I was Valedictorian in high school and have full ride scholarship to a state school. However, I feel like I “owe the world” to use my ability to become something respected like a doctor or engineer, but I just don’t want to. I started in Computer Science for the money but realized I don’t really care about coding. Switched to biology for some dumb reason I came up with in my head and dropped that. Both my parents are engineers but I’ve never really been interested in that. Right now I’m double majoring in Finance and Statistics but I feel like shit because I feel like I should be doing something “more important”. I guess it doesn’t help that I don’t really have any major interests that translate to a degree. I’m good in all subjects so I feel like I could do anything, but instead I’m a business major. I like math and am interested in how to make money (but who isn’t) so I guess that’s why I’m doing Finance.  I just feel guilty all the time because I could be doing something more challenging. 

Anybody else feel this way?",0,1,0.022797688433417566,college
How much partner work is there in college?,Please say none,5,1,0.04345741065563979,college
Is my college GPA screwed?,"I need some general GPA advice. My major is Kinesology with a pre-pt interest 

I am a college freshman, but I am bringing in 15-20 credits from community college (that I did while I’m high School) with a GPA of 3.5 (I don’t know how my university will combine or if they will). 

My GPA right now is not bad but it’s not good. I have all B’s, I’m taking 12 credit hours and I am on the struggle bus. If I end the semester with the grades I have now, I’ll have a GPA of 3.1-3.2. Will I ever be able to raise it? I know you’re suppose to build a cushion your freshman year and I’m failing miserably. 

I’m hoping to go to physical therapy school, so I need my GPA to be at least a 3.5 and I’m worried I won’t be able to do that. 

During this semester, I’ve been hospitalized for a kidney infection, found out my kidney is actually shutting down, found out I have heart arrhythmia and am in general just not super healthy. This is all due to an eating disorder I struggle with. I am starting treatment within the next couple of weeks. 

I don’t want to be doomed with a 3.1 GPA for college and not be able to get into grad school which is my absolute dream. 

Any advice would be appreciated.",1,1,0.06360787361860276,college
What should I do?,"So for my cs class we have a partner project and I have a partner. And this one other student wants me to be his partner when I told him many times I had a partner. Recently he got my number, and had been been begging me to be his partner by giving me 80 dollars and said if we are partner it’s a good thing cause he can get points for work he is going to make me be doing. What should I do? Should I notify the prof this student is cheating and bothering me? Or what?",4,0,0.06962639213712127,college
HELP! I SENT MY SAT SCORE 3 TIMES TO THE SAME COLLEGE,"I have really bad anxiety and i am beating myself up over this! will this college deny me or see me as irresponsible because i accidentally sent my scores 3 times? i sent it once over email and twice on their website

&#x200B;

please send advice!!!!!!!!",4,0,0.07823750324823238,college
Taking a semester off?,"I’m currently a freshman in college. I went out of state to pursue an highly regarded animation program at an otherwise so-so school and I’ve come to realize that animation is really not the field for me.

I want to switch to business and hopefully work in marketing or public relations one day. I’m thinking of transferring back to a school in my state because I could afford to graduate with no debt and also potential study abroad. There really isn’t any reason for my to stay at my current school. 

The schools I want to transfer to are only accepting applications for fall 2020, though, which means my spring semester is up in the air. My options are to either finish out the year at my current school or go home, take online community college classes so I don’t fall behind, and work to save up money for when I go back. It would be the most financially sound decision as I would otherwise have to take out loans to stay at my current school.

Is there anything wrong with that plan? The community college I’m looking at and the school I want to transfer to have very well outlined articulation agreements, so I know exactly what courses to take and that they’ll transfer. I can’t really think of any reason not to do it, but I’m curious about outside opinions.",2,1,0.08368889213712127,college
"If anyone is a sociology major, can you please reply or send me a direct message me?","Hi everyone, 

&#x200B;

My name is Leslie. If you guys are sociology majors, can someone shoot me a direct message or reply here? I am new to sociology and I am SOOOOOOOOO CONFUSED!!!

Thanks!",0,0,0.08652454028526943,college
How should i started?,"I'm studying Cyber security in college, but i also feel like i should know some C+, JavaScript, Python. To be able to stand out. Do you think its a good idea and also some of classes, haven't taught us how to hack. I been doing a lot of reading about it. 

Anyone know how i should started",3,0,0.09460324398897312,college
How to create a resume as a freshman in college?,"Most prestigious summer internships and programs obviously require applicants to send a resume. I’m currently a freshman in college, and am wondering what things to put on a resume that would make it look appealing? I’ve done a lot of cool things back in high school so my resume from then was good enough for many internships. Do I simply keep editing and adding on to this resume? Or do I create a brand new resume and start with a clean slate where I only capture the activities I’ve been doing thus far as a freshman? The latter leads to a crappy resume lol so any tips would be appreciated",2,1,0.11140879954452867,college
am I overreacting...???,"So I had a theology quiz on Monday. I get special accommodations so I take my exams in a separate room and I also get extra time. We had an hour to complete the quiz (which is all short answer) and I had 1.5 hours. I had another important exam that day so I didn’t study so much for this quiz. My answers were short, to the point, and I just wrote what I knew (which wasn’t much to be honest). I finished in 30 minutes and figured that I answered the question so that was enough. I got a 50% on the quiz and the professor made a note next to the grade saying how she thinks my problem is that I didn’t take the time to write out detailed answers and I was given enough time to do so. I emailed her asking if we could meet and she replies “Did you read my comments below the quiz? ... it looked like you rushed through the exam.” I replied saying that wasn’t the case and that we should talk before next class so I can explain and come up with a plan for next time. Idk I just found that really rude. She’s just assuming things without knowing my perspective. I admit that I should have studied more, but she also is grading too harshly. She was looking for a page a question which she never mentioned.",6,0,0.12802916991489904,college
I’m in college and I am feeling old because I am,"I’m a 24 year old female who feel like I’m aging like milk. My lack of experiences like partying and just enjoying life with family makes me feel more sad.
People say I can pass as 20 but I think it’s because of my immature looks/body not because I have a baby face.
I have made no friends here and I’ve been here for 2 months now.

I dropped pretty much all my classes and the one I take I hardly go to (been going through some deep depression)

Well I feel awkward and out of place with those younger than 22 and my depression makes me find everything unamusing
When I hang out with 18-21 year olds I can see a spark in their eyes but I have no spark lol
I’m not interesting at all nor do I have much experience because of the way I grew up

I don’t even have my license because I wasn’t allowed to get one

Every time I hang with younger people and I reveal my age they’re shocked and mood changes

Anyone going through this?",2,1,0.13816805880378794,college
"My campus has a ""christian preacher"" that likes to come and spread hate speech","So I go to a public university in the United States. Every couple of weeks or at least once a month, there is a man who claims to be a preacher who screams at everyone, telling them they are going to hell if they don't repent. His picket sign says all religions including Judaism are going to hell if they don't repent and blah blah. He has accomplices. He has women in long skirts and super loose clothing handing out ""fashion tickets"" to women telling them they dress like whores even if  they are wearing blue jeans and a tee shirt. They are very homophobic. I have a non binary friend who made out with their girlfriend in front of the preacher to piss him off even more today and he was just absolutely hateful. The University will not ban the man from entering campus because of ""free speech"" and it's a public university. Does any other university or college have this problem? If so, how was it handled? Did you get people like this banned from campus?",15,2,0.17473055880378793,college
Thinking of changing my major from computer science to music?,"First semester in community college.

I honestly really enjoy computers. Like a lot. I'm always fascinated on how they work. However, I'm doing only the software side of computers (aka visual basic) instead of hardware. I don't enjoy the class, don't understand the material, and have a teacher that speaks broken English (my teacher runs all the classes for my computer course. I couldn't pick anyone else.) The rest of the computer science courses are all software related classes.

I thought music would be a good fit because I have alot of talent with my singing abilities. Possibly either be a vocalist or music designer as a job, but I'm not completely sure.

Any advice on if I should change major?

Note: The only other computer courses my college has are C.I.S. and Graphic Design (not interested in G.D.)

Thanks in advance.",3,0,0.18440648472971388,college
Why is college this easy,"This is not to brag. For context I took calc 1, composition 1 and us history and got an A on all three in 8 weeks. Also, this was community college. Is it this easy because of community college, aren't my classes hard enough or what? Cause it is starting to worry me that I am getting scammed out of a quality education.",4,0,0.19942963287786203,college
Should I play club lacrosse?,"I genuinely want to, but have never played before and afraid of being ridiculed cuz I haven’t",3,1,0.20423287361860273,college
Study groups,I am a sophomore in college and have a 3.6 but I have never joined a study group. This year I decided to join one to see what it is like and it was super counterproductive. We were all together for about 2 hours but got maybe 20 minutes of work done. Most of the time was spent complaining or watching a video. Are study groups like this or did I just join a bad one,2,2,0.2049388921371213,college
My being at college is emotionally burdening my parents,"I’m a freshman in college. I’m very close with my parents, they’re my best friends. I’ve been at college for about a month now and I’m enjoying it, but I talk to my parents pretty regularly anyway. What they told me on the phone yesterday broke me.

They said they intentionally spend more time at work now to avoid being confronted with the fact that I’m not at home with them. They said they both stay at work for around 12 hours now, come home, eat dinner, sleep then just do it again. Since I left, all they do is work since I was their only reason to come home. They love each other very much, but I’m scared that’s gonna change soon, and all because I’m away from them. They sounded tired and depressed and that destroyed me.

Idk what to do. I feel like my pursuing my degree is emotionally burdening the people I most care about.",7,2,0.2091634291741583,college
Transferring,"This may be an obvious question.

Do I talk to my advisor for advice about transferring? It feels wrong to go to her to get help with leaving the school, but I’m very confused about some of the process and I would like some help going about it. I’m just not sure if my advisor for my current school is the right person to ask.",2,0,0.21092268843341758,college
Going back to school after failing a semester and dropping out. Help appreciated,"Hello, so about a year ago I attended community college and ended up slacking off and withdrawing the first semester and then failing all of my classes the second semester. Yes I know, what the fuck was I thinking. Anyways, at that time I started working in IT and figured I wouldn't want to go back to school anyways so fuck it. Well here I am and I want to go back to school. My question is if I retake the classes I failed and pass them, will that remove the original grades from my GPA? I tried contacting my counselor and haven't heard back yet, it's been a few days. I was hoping someone here might have an idea of how that works. Another option is to try going to a seperate community college and start over, but I'm unsure if my past semester will still be on my transcript. Any advice on what to do would be great, thanks guys",0,1,0.21335324398897315,college
"No communication from lab partner, sick of this.","At what point do you abandon your lab partner and just submit your lab report on your own? 

Our report is due in an hour and a half and this person has contributed nothing, only replied to me once saying they were working on it. 

Planning on submitting my work along with the screenshots of all communication and version history from google docs.

Has anyone had this happen? Were you graded poorly even if you submitted proof you did all you could and your partner was shit?",4,2,0.24388565139638052,college
Just need a tiny push,"Okay so this is my first semester and I didn't know what I wanted to do. Now I have an idea.

I want to become a musician. Now not only be on stage but mix/record audio and maybe even make a record label.

I need to choose what to do. I'm thinking about Commercial Music because its exactly what I want to do but I'm a bit scared.

I mean what if I'm not good enough? I love music and see this as an ideal job but what if I'm not good enough?

Idk basically I need someone to say ""Just do it idiot"" or someone to say ""Music is a waste moron"".",3,1,0.2464435217667509,college
Struggling Student with ADD,,0,1,0.27398981806304723,college
Keeping Up With Elem-Statistics,It's so difficult. I live an hour and a half away from my school so I have to wake up very early for my classes. I have a low D now because I work so much and I have no down time. I feel guilty for sleeping at night because I know I need to work on the class. I don't know what to do.,0,1,0.30401296621119533,college
"""Survey"" company contacted me through my student email","As mentioned in the title, I received an email from another student account about ""Pagna Survey services"". I've heard these can sometimes be scams, but if it's legit the money is pretty solid. Anyone else have an experience with this?",3,2,0.3163509291741583,college
I transferred to a much more reputable school but my GPA is going to be much lower?,"Hi! I transferred to a much better undergrad business school this year (think within top 3 in the US), but I’m looking at how my classes are going and I think I’ll come out with a 3.1 this semester. At my previous university I had a 3.8, so this is a bit of a drop for me. What should I do with my GPA in terms of my resume? Just worried it would affect me in terms of looking for jobs and possibly applying for MBAs.",10,0,0.319580095840825,college
how screwed am i?,"i’m 16 and i graduated out of high school early. it was extremely easy for me and i had 100s in almost all of my classes with a 4.3 GPA. now i’m going to a small community college and was hoping to later on transfer to a 4 year university. i was promised a full ride scholarship IF, and ONLY IF, my GPA is above a 3.0 by the time the first semester ends. this is the only way i was able to come to college. this is also my problem. 

i did a speech cram course over 3 weeks and finished with an A. i have a 101 in composition. i’m not sure my exact grade but i’m almost confident i have an A or a B in chemistry. but my algebra grade is terrible. no matter what i do, i fail every single assignment, test, and quiz the professor throws at me. i’ve been to his office hours, done hundreds of textbook example problems, and even gone to tutoring but my grade is barely passing by one point. 

i’ve tried to talk with my professor about extra credit or a little bit of help, but he is extremely rude and cold hearted. he doesn’t understand that i’m several years younger than everyone in class and may not have learned all the concepts in my high school. whenever i ask him questions he says i’m just wasting his time. he says i never do anything right and i’m the least confident person he’s ever met. 

so.... here’s my question: should i drop this class? i’ll have to take it and pass it at some point. and will it drop my GPA below a 3.0? if so, i will have to drop out of college entirely. 

please help!! :,)",5,4,0.3243486143593435,college
I don’t know if I should stay in university? I have no passion,"I am completely lost. I’m failing my classes, I’m in second year of Uni and switched majors to marketing. The idea of marketing sounds interesting to me but it seems like a useless degree, and I don’t want to be stuck in sales. And yes, the idea interests me but I can’t even tell if I actually like it. I’m stuck with these classes I need for first year. Financing, accounting, stats, economics. All these courses I hate. Plus, after reading around it seems like marketing is a bit useless. I talked to an advisor and they told me to just plan out my schedule and make time to study. It really didn’t help much. I’m scared of taking a year off because I’m a forgetful person. Example, I haven’t done a math course in two years and I forget so many things, which is why stats is so hard right now. There is no other degree I’m interested in. 

Here are things I dislike:
I’m not a math person
I hate science
I’m not a people person so I feel like my options are limited. 
I’ve tried computer science and wow I was bad at it. That gave me stress.

I don’t know if I should stay in Uni or drop out. If I drop out I don’t know what to do after that. I hate being behind, I don’t get along with people younger than me, and I don’t want to be in school for 6 years. 

My only hobby is art, but even that I haven’t done a ton of. It’s been almost a year since I’ve completed an art piece. I can’t see it being my profession, as I’m so critical of myself. Plus careers in it are very low pay.

Things I like is the way social media works, and the aspect of YouTube or maybe even filming. I have little to no experience in filming though so I feel like it’s a hard to tell how well I am at it. Only thing is there are not degrees that offer similar fields to these. Also weird dream of mine but opening a cat cafe or something would be cool. But I’m stressed I need an education in something. I feel like in today’s society it is hard to get a well paying job without a degree. 

I just don’t know what to do. I know I’m young but I just can’t help but want to be finished. I feel awkward switching to a trade school cause everyone will be younger than me by the time I go (it takes two years to get into a program). I’m just not happy, I can’t find anything I’m passionate about. I wish to do good in university, I wish I was that person to get a degree but I’m not and I hate it.",2,1,0.3396958365815657,college
"After one year of traditional college, I’m going to switch to online. Associates or Bachelors?","So after figuring out traditional school is not my thing (too expensive, don’t care for all the socialization that basically sells traditional college) I’ve decided to do online after this year ends next spring. The question is, do I want to spend around one year getting an associates or go straight for a bachelors?

The idea of getting an AS quickly and going to work excites me because I can’t wait to become financially independent already. My mom is honestly very manipulative and I’m ready to get out ASAP, but on the other hand I know a bachelors will make me more employable and increase my salary, but it’d take 3 maybe even 4 years depending on credit transfers.

My plan is to either get an A.S in environmental science, work for a couple years as an environmental technician and eventually get my bachelors in occupational health/safety or a similar degree. If I decided to go straight for a bachelors I’d go straight for the occupational health/safety degree (or similar).

I live in Oklahoma, and to be honest there’s quite a few jobs for environmental technicians where all they want are either an associates degree or there are some that only require H.S diplomas but prefer an A.S, which would make me a top candidate for those jobs. 

Any input is appreciated y’all

P.S - at the end of this year I’ll have around 40 credits",1,1,0.34789028102601016,college
How to go back after a skipped semester?,"Hey y’all. So last semester (Jan 2019) was my first semester at college, and honestly it sucked. I ended up having panic attacks every day, fell behind in my classes, and ultimately failed every class. I took this semester off, to recharge & try to get ready to return, but I still feel woefully unprepared. So I guess what I’m looking for is, how do you all stay afloat in your classes? Any advice is welcome, I just want to arm myself to be ready come January.",1,1,0.34808704028526943,college
Is living alone off-campus a bad idea?,I’m considering getting a 1 br or studio apartment and was wondering if anyone’s had experience with that? I’m just afraid it might get lonely but having to deal with roommates can get draining and I might like my own space.,1,2,0.35275139213712126,college
I may or may not have coaxed myself into a snafu,"So basically, due to my citizenship status, I decided to go to university in Poland instead of continuing on my education in the United States; I thought it was the best choice because I wont have to pay for college debt or anything, but oh boy.

I'm trying to major in Computer Science, and the mathematical classes I have to take are, suffice to say, difficult. They follow a completely different cirriculum compared to what we were are expected to know, and I think that in conjunction with the language barrier is going to kill my grades - it's really difficult to do well in classes when you don't understand the mathematical terms being used, at all.

The problem is, now that I've already started school here and am about halfway through the semester, what choices do I have if I chose to come back to the states and complete my college education there?

I really wouldn't be able to count on financial support from my parents, so I assume the FAFSA might be able to help me out a little bit; realistically I'd have to take out a college loan, which while I'm not ecstatic about, I'd be willing to have to take it to be able to understand everything in class at least.

In terms of grades, I get the feeling that high school grades wouldn't matter particularly too much, which is a shame since I had a 3.79 unweighted and my SAT score was about 1280; right now in my college courses, I'm doing very well in my computer science and humanities type courses, but im not doing so hot in the math classes I'm taking.

So realistically then, what options do I have? I'm assuming that the credits I earn aren't going to transfer over entirely, which might mean having to take more than 4 years to get a bachelor's right?

I dunno guys, your thoughts are greatly appreciated; honestly, if there were some tutorials on how to do this stuff in English, that'd be great but this is so difficult to wrap my head around it!",2,1,0.36218426250749164,college
How are masters program applicants notified usually?,My fiance applied to a masters program at her nursing school with her friend. They were interviewed on the same day by the same person. Her friend got her acceptance email yesterday but my fiance didn't hear anything yet? It's a rolling application so is it still possible for her to be accepted? She has better grades and is more involved in the school than her friend and she said that her interview went really well so she is having a hard time understanding why her friend would get accepted and not her. Any advice or personal experiences would be greatly appreciated. She is really stressed out about it,0,1,0.3737004662111953,college
What do y'all think is a more beneficial assignment,This assignment could actually be implemented at my college if done well enough. I'm about to get started on an assignment. And stuck between two topics. Would you rather have a centralized place on an Oklahoma State website with everything financial aid and scholarships including those not offered by okstate or its partners. Or would you rather have a class that is required to be taken your first semester of college that prepares you with different study habits and techniques forcing you to study and take notes in different ways for each of your first semester classes where you would be able to decipher which method works best for you overall and have the knowledge of certain methods in case a course may require different attention?,0,2,0.3760615773223065,college
Me professor has a test scheduled for the day before Thanksgiving and is refusing to let me take it early,"My family bought plant tickets months in advance for the Sunday before Thanksgiving to see our family in Maine during the break (in Florida currently) and my math professor has one of our four tests scheduled for the day before Thanksgiving and I will literally be in another state. I spoke to her with over a month notice (talked yesterday) and she said under no circumstances can I take the test early. I can't afford a zero on the gradebook yet I don't want to be alone in my dorm the entire break, waste the ticket, and not see my family who I haven't seen since August. Personally I feel it's already a d¡ck move to give a test the day before considering many kids need to fly home if they want to send the holidays with their family. I spoke to her on the friendliest way possible but now I'm unsure what to do.

Tldr: teacher has test for Thanksgiving yet I can't see my family and take three test, what should I do? (Freshman in college btw)",9,0,0.3881680588037879,college
Does Examity Actually Work?,"So I had an online midterm exam with Examity recently, first time using it, and my webcam usually has a light that lets me know if it's recording or not. 

I know it was working when I used the webcam to take a picture of my face as I saw the light, but after that the light never came up again, neither during the test or after the test. So I'm not sure if that's supposed to be intentional or not?",0,0,0.39503148472971383,college
"This is pretty pathetic, but as a freshman during my first semester due to personal issues, I've already missed over five weeks of classes. Any advice on pulling this together?","I don't know what to do at this point. All of my class syllabi explain that 5 absences result in class failure unless with very good reason and/or written documentation. I just had to get this off of my chest whether this is received positively or negatively Im sure of which, but any kind of input would be appreciated.",17,0,0.3964898180630472,college
What is your sweet spot for number of classes a semester / number of hours worked a week?,Trying to find a good schedule for me.  I’ve done 12 credit hours / worked 30 hours a week and did ok.  But wanting to bump up to 15-17 credit hours and work maybe 20?,5,1,0.40628148472971387,college
advice for coping with college and anxiety/depression/panic disorder?,"i just started freshman year like 2 months ago and things are going downhill fast. my anxiety was at its peak weeks ago and i've barely been able to drag myself to every class. i got a c on a quiz that everyone else got a b or better on and will probably flunk my psych midterms. i'm awful at memorising and regurgitating content for tests and the mental health issues obviously aren't helping. i don't have friends in my college either so it's difficult to get support. school is only set to get busier and busier and i'm so afraid i'll just flunk everything and get kicked out of school. 

&#x200B;

those struggling with mental illness - how do you cope?",2,4,0.41689491065563977,college
All A’s and one C,I’m looking to transfer to UB for my spring semester for my freshmen year but I have all A’s and one C .Its this stupid history class they put me in for no reason I hate history. Do you think I’ll be admitted?,1,0,0.4269990773223064,college
Feeling homesick.,"Hello people, this is my first year in collage and its only been 3 weeks since it started and i miss home every single day here even tho i live 1 hour drive from here. I live in a flat with roommate who is okay i guess. This town is pretty small about 50k people and you don't have that much things to do around here other than to study.  Living at home was alot simpler, i miss my family every day, i miss my friends, i miss my cat and most of all i mostly miss place where i have grown up.

&#x200B;

Any suggestion or advice would be very helpful. Thank you.",4,1,0.4300893551000842,college
How do I know if switching majors is right? (Engineering to Computer Science),"I’ve been on the “engineering path” since long before college. I wanted to be “some sort of scientist” as a child, then for a minute an astronaut. Then after research and looking into my own health issues, I decided astronaut wasn’t as likely or realistic. So finally around the age of 14-15 I settled on mechanical engineer. Life stuff happened and it got pushed back (life stuff = getting married/having baby) and now I’m 23 in my 3rd semester, but that’s fine. 

Just wanted to give a back story to show how invested I, and everyone around me, is into this degree. My parents have helped me get into good classes in high school, my siblings were put on the back burner a bit (I’m the “smart one”) to ensure my success. My dad and i have put all our efforts into making sure this degree could happen, and he found me financial aid through the VA so I could go to free school. 

First year was fine, no trouble. I went to a smaller school for the smaller mandatory classes like speech class and psychology class before this year transferring to a university. This semester I have English, math, chemistry, and c++ intro to programming. 

Here are some reasons I’m considering switching:

1. My chemistry class is destroying my GPA. Every class our prof gives us an example of real word application of what we’re learning, and most of the time the example is “engineers will need this later in their careers” and it makes me miserable thinking my career will be based in such a miserable class. Chemistry sucks and I’m failing with a 54% currently. 

2. I have never had as much fun in a class as I do with C++. I know this sounds really stupid but I feel like I finally found that THING that just makes sense for me. I feel like every assignment is a new puzzle to solve, and it’s solvable with complete freedom. Despite having troubles here and there, or getting lower grades on certain assignments, it doesn’t matter, this class is so much more fulfilling than anything I’ve ever done. 

I’ve done programming hobby work, like fixing yo my moms website (html css) or goofing off in unity (c#) and I took the code academy python course too just for fun. I’ve always loved it, but something about a classroom setting and being instructed on what to do instead of working at my own pace is AMAZING. 

I went to the engineering college counselor (the only one I can currently go to) and he was very unhelpful. You ever meet those type of people who are just obviously miserable with their lives? That was him. He gave me a referral to the CS counselor and I’m meeting her the 22nd. He also sent me an email with CS classes I can take next semester once I officially transfer. But that’s pretty much it. Every question I asked was “you’ll have to ask the CS counselor, I don’t know” so I’m feeling unsure. 

I don’t wanna hinge my entire career future on a single two classes (chem and c++), but I also don’t wanna waste my time in engineering, one of the most stressful college degrees apparently, when I would fit better in CS anyways. I’m getting a free 4 years and I don’t want to waste it. Should I get my engineering degree anyways (I was gonna minor in CS) and then just get a job in CS? So I have a fancy degree just in case? Or should I just get the CS degree? 

I only started considering transferring this semester, so it’s really abrupt. Running it by my mom she was cool with it and supportive, but my dad was worried I’d be “quitting on my dreams to become a video game maker or something” which he deems a NOT good career. I am very slowly in the process of making a small game and he knows this, and doesn’t approve of it. He thinks I should’ve “grown out of that” years ago. 

So how do I know if I’m making the right decision?",6,1,0.46334166991489906,college
Construction waking me up in morning,"Last year when I was choosing housing, the college did not make me aware that right outside my window would be a new building being built. I go to bed pretty late and am a light sleeper. The construction often begins around 7am or earlier and is extremely loud. I fear that I’m becoming an insomniac. Is there anything I can do for compensation form the college for not letting me know that this was going to happen?",2,0,0.4864435217667509,college
Missed a Cal Grant award payment. Will i get it soon?,"So, we’re halfway into the semester and I barley got awarded Cal Grant. My schedule payment goes like this:

Pell Grant: Aug 10
Pell Grant: Sep 13 
Pell Grant: Oct 18
Cal Grant: Sep 13 

So, since i got the Cal Grant awarded this month (October) and it was scheduled to be given to me on Sep 13, does that mean I’ll get it this month? 

Thanks for your time and anything helps.",0,1,0.4997537069519361,college
Send help. How bad does it look to have a failing class on your transcript if it doesn’t affect your GPA?,"For background I am in a STEM field at decently ranked program in my field. So the truth is, I have overloaded myself this semester: I am taking too many credit hours, I have a job, and I try to be involved in extra curriculares. This has caused me to do poorly in some of my classes, and I am doing really poorly in physics 2 lecture right now. There is a separate corequisite lab class, and I am doing well in that. I talked to my advisor and came to the decision to drop the physics lecture, and she suggested that I drop the lecture class but remain in the lab class to go ahead and finish that. She said that I might run into a problem where when I try to drop the lecture that the system will not let me do that because I am in the corequisite lab class, and in that case I should just change the lecture to pass/fail and fail the lecture class and it won’t be factored into my GPA, and continue to take the lab. I ran into this problem, but I am concerned about how bad it looks to have a failed class on my transcript, even if it doesn’t affect my GPA. I would like to go to grad school, and so I don’t want it to look bad in a grad school application if I my transcript says I failed physics this semester:(  so my options are to 1) do what my advisor suggested and change the lecture to pass/fail and let myself take an L and fail the lecture class, or 2) drop both the lecture and the lab, and retake both later on. I have been afraid to talk to my advisor about grad school because I’m afraid she doesn’t believe in my capabilities :( I appreciate any guidance, thoughts, or support <3",0,1,0.551304632877862,college
Removing a failed class grade after testing out of it?,"Due to external factors, I failed an ITM course dealing with the basics of Microsoft excel. The course is P/F, with a pass not counting towards gpa, and an F counting. It’s only two credits, so the impact isn’t that bad, but would there be a way to remove it from GPA calculation if I were to test out of the class? I feel confident in my knowledge and believe I’d have no problem passing the test for the credit needed as a prerequisite. The issue then would be replacing the grade-usually done by retaking the course, but not an option after receiving credit from the test. Any thoughts? Am I stuck with it unless I retake instead of testing out?

EDIT: I originally gave the impression that I wanted the grade removed entirely from my record and transcript, when I meant to say removed from GPA calculation.",10,1,0.5744412069519361,college
How many people do you greet in uni?,"As in, say hello or wave every time you see them",4,0,0.6159689847297138,college
Is there a major for this?,"I’m not in college yet, but I was wondering if anyone who is in college would know about a major like this. So in short, I’m looking for a career where I can use my math skills to help people. I’ve always enjoyed helping people because I’m the type of person who likes to be nice. I also have pretty good math skills, and I can’t see my math skills suddenly getting worse any time soon. Is there a career where I can utilize math to help people? I was thinking that maybe accounting would be a suitable major, but I don’t know much about it. Engineering sounds useful, but wouldn’t the person receiving your work never see you? I prefer a career where I could help the person face to face. Also, I’m looking for something that would pay a good amount.",23,6,0.6329828736186027,college
Dorming,"I’m a freshman in college who is currently commuting to my college. My Tuition as it is now is perfectly fine, the way I’m going I will graduate with no debt. However , I feel like I’m missing out on my college experience by not dorming. Should I risk going into debt by taking loans I have to pay after college to dorm? Is dorming really that worth it? Commuting has made it difficult to make friends even though it’s my first semester. I’m thinking of transferring and dorming but I’m scared of my debt after college. It wouldn’t be that much debt, but is it worth getting into for dorming??",4,1,0.6745453736186028,college
"Taking language courses at easier colleges? If so, how?","Hey there. I'm approaching my 5th year at my university and I gotta get the hell out of here.

But I still need two classes of 200-level foreign language. Spanish because I'm basic and too lazy, hence how long I waited.

***Have any of you taken courses at another college because it is easier? If so, how did you go about it?***",1,2,0.695668058803788,college
When you post only because you don’t want to lose 5 points for your assignment. #jms210,,1,1,0.7075083365815658,college
I need help.,"Hey guys.

I really need some help which has resulted in me coming here. This is going to be a mess of a text so bear with me. Its been hard. I go to usc, a pretty good school as you all know. I live two hours away. My mental state has resulted me in thinking thats far. I am a homebody and remember days when I used to cry in elementary school because I didn't want to be away from home even though it was up the street. I wanted to be with my mom and my family. I love them to death and I am extremely family oriented. I've had a fine mental state over the years. Some bad times some good times some really bad times. I discovered I accumulated dissociation over the years which comes in various degrees. Basically dont feel in tune with the real world, more like I am floating and cant fully grasp my surroundings. Moving out was probably one of the hardest things I have done. I cried every day for three weeks straight. It got better and I was doing good. My brother lives about 15-20 min away from me. I dont understand. Then it happened again. The nonstop crying and calling my mom. I feel unstable and I cry talking about everything pertaining to my mental state. I cry when I see my family members and cry over past times we had. Ever since moving, Ive had this deep constant pit in my stomach of how time is going by fast and I want to spend every second in my hometown with my family and my friends and have high school happen again when we all together. Im so unstable. I can't let go of these memories and am so scared of the death of those around me it has interfered with my appetite and studies. I don't know why this is happening but I feel a lot. More than normal I think. I wake up with anxiety everyday and right now I am home for the break and still have this impeding doom over me that the break is going to be over and things are going by too fast, not allowing me to live in the moment. Im thinking about the ending of things to fast. I want to slow down time but also speed it up so I can get out of there and finally live with my family for a little again. I feel my mood roller coaster going up and down physically every five minutes and its exhausting. Im so tired of this. I go to such a good school and dont want my future to get screwed up but I want to move back. I want things back. Im so scare d",1,1,0.722230558803788,college
What does this wording mean?,"**Major assignments will be penalized one letter grade (e.g., from B to C) for 48 hours they are late.** If the work is not submitted within 72 hours after it is due, it will not be accepted and an F will be recorded for it. 

Does that mean that if its more than 48 hours late its a letter grade?",7,1,0.7382259291741582,college
I got a B on my sociology exam,I’m proud of myself. This was my second exam in the class. My first exam I got a 66 and I was sad about it. This time I studied more and focused on what questions the professor might ask. Overall I’m doing better this semester in all my classes. I’m really glad.,3,2,0.7427050958408249,college
Is a Double Major Worth It?,"I am currently attending a community college to get the basic classes I need for a Computer Engineering Degree and then transfer to a state college. Right now I am contemplating switching my Major from Computer Engineering to Music Production. I am terrible at math and feel like that would be an issue. I've had always had an interest in the music industry and have friends who work in studios. I enjoy visiting them at their workplace and watching the process. My question is, Would having a double major as Computer Engineering for a backup plan if the Music Production fails, or would learning everything for music on my own be a better way to go?",19,5,0.7800083365815657,college
Pell grant,How do I apply for it?,4,2,0.7830638921371214,college
Hard time understanding words?,"When reading a word. I have a hard time understanding it. For example my sister told me to look up something like ""proxy,"" and one of the definitions was ""a figure that can be used to represent the value of something in a calculation."" and I don't understand that or what that means and it's frustrating because I feel like I can't surpass my vocabulary or learning level or even my writing if I don't get what certain things mean by definition. That word was an example. Help?",4,2,0.7843370402852694,college
Transferring from a private university to a public university,"For the students who transferred from a private uni to a public uni, how was the transition? In terms of:

Transferring credits/taking extra year

Social scene/starting over to gain friends

Academics

Financial aid/scholarships

Professors/classes/academics

Thank you for anyone who can answer my question.",0,3,0.7928555588037879,college
I just withdrew from my math class,I’m definitely going to have a W on my transcript now but I would have gotten an F otherwise. I had surgery 3-4 weeks ago and it really set me back in the class. I just wanted to share I guess lol,20,28,0.814753706951936,college
What are some recruiting ideas for a new business fraternity?,"We started a professional business fraternity last semester and would like to take our recruitment up a notch. We are the only fraternity or sorority on our small campus. Our fraternity organization is also co-ed. We are mainly looking for ideas that aren’t centered around drinking (that comes after) but to get people in the door. Any ideas?

Thanks!",0,2,0.8164898180630472,college
Is NHS worth it?,"I got into the national honors society a little under a year ago in my junior year of high school, and I'm considering quitting. The teacher that runs it makes us constantly jump through hoops and do pointless work to remain in the club (which has only met once) and the club doesn't even do anything important. It's all for show. I did all the stuff to apply because it looks good on applications and all that, but is it really worth all the work if it's only one small detail on my college applications?",3,1,0.8170453736186027,college
Give me hope,"Currently, I'm a freshman in college taking 4 pretty hard to really hard courses: Discrete Math, Microeconomics, Cognitive Psychology and Linear Algebra. I'm running either an A (Discrete Math) or a B in all my courses, which is fine overall, but the reason that I'm terrified right now is because I didn't exhibit great study habits coming into college and while they've definitely improved from my high school days, they're still not excellent. 

I'm scared because I don't want to be doing this poorly in freshman year. I am going to have a lot on my plate in upcoming semesters and to get off to a rocky start now would be horrible for my psyche and ability to focus in the future. 

I know where I'm messing up, too: It's the midterms. In Discrete Math, I studied for the whole day prior to the test and got an A, which, compounded with solid homework grades means I'm on track to get an A for the course. But I pretty much bombed the other midterms, mainly due to a lack of studying. 

I am very much afraid now that, even if I do study my ass off, I will just be too far behind to be able to get to an A (in Psych and Micro) or even recover to a B (in Linear Algebra). What I really need right now is an anecdote that will soothe my soul and let me know that, if I at least put in the effort for long enough, I can recover my semester. 

I get that this might seem cringy and whatnot, but I'm really frazzled over here. Indulge me just this once.",3,1,0.8433763921371212,college
Aussie looking to study in the us,"Hey all you american folk. 

I’m looking to study a short course / certificate course over in one of your colleges! I know that ucla offer an extension program, but does anyone know of there are any other colleges in the us that offer something similar?? 

I would love to do a full degree. But the cost for me would be way to much to afford as I am Australian and I have no one in the us. I really just want to experience the college lifestyle for a couple semesters or even a year, and also add some good knowledge to my resume.
 

Thanks a lot you bloody legends! Keen to hear what you have to say.",4,6,0.881767595840825,college
Losing motivation to continue,"Please read the full thing if you want to reply:

So, lately I've been thinking about how much I've screwed up in college. I'm a college sophomore in Canada. First year was hard, I went to a high school where marks were extremely inflated and basically I did not read or do much in high school to succeed. Fast forward now, my reading skills fucking suck (I'm a Political Science major, with a Business certification) who has a few options. I eventually want to become a lawyer, but my other options are becoming a prof, working in policy, project management (w NGOS), gov relations or think tanks. All of those are my options, I can see myself in every single occupation I've listed, I know I've listed a lot. I'd be happy regardless of which I choose.

Academics wise....It's not that I suck at reading itself, if it's an easy read like fiction or something I can read for hours, and I dont suck at writing (generally my essays get between 70-90% WITHOUT LATE DEDUCTIONS WHICH ILL GET INTO), but specifically if it's scholarly work or a textbook...I cant really get myself to read large volumes of it at once, which puts me behind. Also, comprehending political philosophy is REALLY hard for me. Readings like Plato and Aristotle, wow.

That all combined just makes me extremely depressed, I feel like I could be doing more, but I get super upset about not succeeding that I put myself in dark places mentally and just make my situation worse. My assignments get turned in super late as a result, and my 86% paper turns to 50% or 60% (they put the original mark, then the penalty on the papers)

TL; DR. Basically, MY GRADES ARE SHIT. I HAVE BIG DREAMS. I'm extremely behind. And I'm ready to do better, it just seems like too late. I don't want to be on academic probation this semester. Please help me out. How do you stay motivated? Study tips? Losing hope.",1,1,0.8894296328778619,college
"A little older and going back to school. Finding it extremely difficult to get into ""student mode""","27M going back to college to work on my Associates after some time away. I am finding it extremely difficult to memorize and internalize the information that is in front of me. My lack of motivation to do so is also completely gone. I find myself just staring at the page sometimes, or just letting my mind wander. It's as if my capacity to learn in a traditional school environment has dramatically decreased. 

When I was younger my parents were VERY strict with me about school. All study no play kind of childhood. I feel like I coasted on natural intelligence for a very long time and never learned to actually learn. I also burned out quickly since I was in advanced courses in high school and it was normal for me to stay up until 2-3AM studying on weekdays.

All the negative associations I've built up with sitting down and learning plus the dulling of my mind and how tired I am from work/life is making me very pessimistic about my odds of graduating. Any advice/thoughts?",8,6,0.8957490773223065,college
What's the hardest part about writing a college paper?,What do you all struggle with the most when you're writing papers for school? Formatting? Citing sources? Where to begin? Avoiding plagiarism? Doing research? Curious what everyone struggles with the most.,43,33,0.9112699106556398,college
Whats my chances of getting into Vt,"Stats: Gpa 3.691 SAT:1270- math660 reading610 Major- Accounting Two races- half hispanic and white (does this benefit me? Like give me minority status?) Work experience- work weekends 12 hours during school and 30+ hours over summer (customer service rep at harris teeter) Extra curriculars: Indoor track 11 and 12 grade: around 22-24 weeks a year Travel soccer 9 and 10 grade: around 40 weeks a year FBLA member-only one meeting a month so like a total of 7

So i heard VT is gonna be hard to get into but I hop having an accounting major helps because I did good on math part of sat, and i take accounting and advanced accounting and my moms an accountant. My essays are pretty good and I feel i have alstrong extra curriculars?

So can anyone help me?",7,0,0.9114203736186027,college
I’m scared to move on,I have lived with my parents my entire life and have never been away from both of them more than a month. I want to be able to move out and go to a college in a different state in the us and I’m not sure it’s going to be a good fit. Can someone that may have had the same experience give me some advice/ comforting information,6,5,0.9119875032482323,college
Which professor to choose?,There are four accounting classes offered by two professors next semester. One  professor has mixed reviews and the other is brand new and is teaching one class while also pursuing his doctorate (Just got his MBA). Are new professors in your experience chill or hard? What would you do in this case?,2,1,0.9136078736186029,college
What are you gonna be for Halloween?,,9,2,0.9161194476926768,college
Is it true that people in college don't care what bathroom you use?,I've started college recently and have noticed that girls often come in the men's bathroom if theirs is full or too far or sometimes for no reason and every guy in the bathroom treats this as no big deal except for few freshmen like myself who were shocked. I was wondering if it's common in college to use opposite sex's bathroom? Would I get in trouble for using women's bathroom or should I refrain from it?,17,2,0.9183648180630472,college
Is it good advice from an academic advisor to learn material from chapter summaries in the book?,"Hi,

I was talking with an academic advisor and she told me to learn the material in a math book (it's algebra 1) from just reviewing the chapter summaries. Is this a good strategy for studying/learning the material in/from the book?",2,0,0.9618486143593434,college
How to Handle Fast Professors,"Hello, 

I've been going to college for a little over 3 years, and I'm currently on my last semester. I've maintained a consistent 3.2 gpa average, and was honestly hoping for a easy close to my education. It was not to be. My professor for Criminology goes really fast during his lectures, and I find it almost impossible to keep up when taking notes. It has gotten to the point where I stop taking notes half way through the class, because I get frustrated with only getting down half of each slide. I recently bombed the midterm exam, because my study-material was simply the textbook, which was about 100 pages of dense material over 3 chapters. 

I asked my professor for advice, and he told me, ""I don't know what to tell ya, read the textbook."" I feel like I am between a rock and a hard place. I cannot take effective notes, the textbook is way too dense, and the book is rented (I'm poor) so I cannot bring it to class and highlight specifics. Any advice? I am pretty desperate here. Thanks.",7,3,0.975830095840825,college
hu question,"hi, yesterday i was with a bunch of ppl who were drunk and we all decided to do an insult circle where basically everyone insults everyone in the room. one guy told me i am the ""kind of girl he would hook up with at a party and then never talk to again."" what does that even mean/how am i supposed to interpret that??",1,0,0.9764087995445286,college
College Works Painting 'Internship',"Has anyone ACTUALLY completed the college works painting internship, if so how much money did you make, and did you still have time for friends?

Got an interview with them Friday, I will not sign anything until I make sure this isn't a scam, working 80 hour weeks doesn't bother me. They rank as the 6th best internship on vault's list. I've been hearing good things and bad things.",2,2,0.9869064847297139,college
How to get better at cases,I am an economics major minoring in financial analysis. I'm currently in a finance valuation class and I am struggling. The whole class is based on these big complex Harvard business school cases and I am having a hard time getting through them. The whole point is determining what is relevant out of all the information they give you and using it to come up with recommendations or find major problems. We have done 4 so far and with each one there has come a point in class discussion where I totally missed something or didn't think about something in the right way. Has anyone else struggled with these and what are some ways to get better at them? I feel like I'm putting in the effort and reading through them multiple times/highlighting/making notes but I am still lacking a good practice of working through a case.,0,1,1.0092212995445287,college
bad midterm mark stressing me out,"hii! to keep it short and sweet, i did my psych 100 midterm, and my current grade in the course is 60% right now. this was my first midterm and i really thought i had it down. i'm kind of freaking out because 60% is really low, and i was really aiming for at least a 73%. we've only had a quiz and that mid term so far. and we have another quiz, a paper, a final exam, and some bonus marks later on. do you guys think it's possible for me to raise my mark that much by the second term? thank you so much!",6,2,1.0303092625074917,college
Midterm tomorrow for history 1301,Fuck I got a midterm tomorrow and I didn’t read the book even though I did the online quiz each chapter I didn’t retain any information. Any advice? I am able to use notes on midterm,5,0,1.0340361143593435,college
any early graduates here?,"im a 16 y/o freshman with no friends and have no idea how to approach people in my classes. i will make occasional small talk but once my age comes up people start either talking down to me or just don’t talk to me anymore. it’s sucks because people in high school never talked to me, and the adults in my life always told me it’s “because im too mature.” ik that that’s some bullshit that they just said to make me feel better, but ig some part of my subconscious believed them because im super disappointed now that ive graduated early and still have no friends. 

and for the icing on the cake, the group of “friends” (in quotations because they treated me terribly) i had two semesters ago have completely stopped talking to me. all at once. as if they decided to drop me at the same time, just because they knew it’d get to me. 

i was hoping starting college would open up a door for new friends and likeminded peers, but i just feel more alone than ever. i start my sophomore year this spring and if i still haven’t met anyone i may implode:) is anyone in a similar situation?",10,9,1.0429481513963805,college
Disparity in grades for the same class but with different professors,"My prof has a class avg of 71 and the other prof has a class avg of 98. He has two big easy midterms and we have a weekly quiz that’s super hard. 

Has anyone been able to do something about a situation like this?",9,29,1.0469759291741583,college
Did any transfers here lose enough credit to delay graduation?,"I hate my university. I want to transfer, however I’m scared that my credits won’t all transfer or most part and I’ll be delayed by default. How frequent is this?",5,2,1.0591518551000842,college
How do you spend the rest of your day after class/work?,,24,13,1.090679632877862,college
What do I put on a Resume/CV for a Laboratory Assistant position as an undergrad?,"I want to get into a Psychology PhD program, and one of my professors recently told me I need to start getting lab assistant experience now. I'm a sophomore, almost junior (I have a weird amount of credits and will be classified as a junior next semester).

I've seen a lab assistant position in the Psychology department at my school open to undergrads. I want to apply, but I have NO idea what to put on my resume/CV.

I have no previous lab experience. I'm a non-traditional student (I'm 26 and have been in college on and off for 7 years and am currently unemployed), and I have work experience in the restaurant and banking industries, and administrative assistant experience.

I have somewhat of a spotty work history, and have not been involved in any extracurriculars since I graduated high school in 2011. I am concerned about the impact that will have, as well as my complete lack of lab experience.

What information is pertinent on an application for an undergrad lab assistant?

Edit: grammar",3,2,1.0913856513963807,college
"Have an exam tomorrow, but I have Flu like symptoms.","I feel like shit. It’s not super bad, but don’t really want to take an exam like this. Should I message my professor and ask to take it Friday or Monday? I’m kind of nervous as I haven’t done that before, but it’s been a long week. 

I saw going to send this: 

>Hello Professor [Insert Name] 

>I’m not feeling well. I’m planning on heading to the ER, but I think I just have the Flu. If I don’t improve by tomorrow, could I come in to take the exam Friday? Or Monday? If that is not possible, don’t worry about it. I think I’ll still do alright on the test, just feel better taking an exam when I’m not sick. Thought I would ask in case. 

>Thank you,

>[Insert My Name]

Should I send it? I don’t want him to think I’m lying or a bad kid, but I also don’t want to take an exam when I feel like shit. 

So, thoughts?",5,1,1.1033763921371214,college
Looking for some help on accreditation and whether or not it’s important in this situation,,4,3,1.1132490773223065,college
The Importance of Honor In Academia," 

In  2015, given I were to ask a college student about honor, they may have  thought it was backwards.  A ""1950's thing and good riddance.""  A  ""Modern Man"" may not have believed in honor.  He was modern, and honor  was something of that past.  Honor is an important part of academia.  It  never stopped being important.  Given someone believed otherwise, they  do not belong in or around an Academic Institution.

A   young man applies and is accepted to Yale.  Due to his acceptance to   Yale, young man is now in a Honor Group.  Young man has peers.  All his   peers were also accepted and jumped through various hoops to be there.    They get a certain degree of honor or respect.  At Yale, and most  every  University that has Academic Integrity, they have some sort of  Honor  Code.  Students do not cheat.  Given a student cheated, and was  found  out, they may lose their honor status.  They are now a  dishonorable  person.  They may end up disciplined or kicked out.

Honor   is an important concept to Justice.  A Judge is Your Honor or The   Honorable.  Given he is not honorable he is a coward, yellow, arbitrary,   and a variety of other negative things?  He is basically like a   prostitute who can be bought and sold by the highest bidder?  Given a   Judge is doing dishonorable things, and his found out, he may lose his   honor status.  He becomes disbarred.

Man   is in Tennessee.  He had three beers with dinner, and walks home. He  hurt nobody.  Walking home, a police officer  talks to him.  The police  officer doesn't like him or something.  Maybe he hurt the police  officers feelings.  He is  arrested.  Why and for what?  Public Intox.   Public Intoxication is a  type of law that a variety of Law Enforcement  Officials, depending on  the State or County, tend to abuse.  You were  drinking and a police  officer talked to you?  He may arrest you.  In  such  case, who is the injured party?  Given a man was arrested for  public  intox, and he plead not guilty, the injured party may be The  HONOR of  the State of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.   Honor matters.  Does The  State of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ have honor, or are they government by  dishonorable individuals and tyrants?  Given The State of  \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ has no honor, they may be lacking in legitimacy, and  resorted to be tyrants and liars to keep control.  In a for-profit   justice system, why did a man end up in jail?  Because he did something   wrong, or because the state makes money for him to be there, or some   other reason that is deviant, dishonest, and dishonorable?

Around  grad schools, and Universities, there may have been some people who  thought they were ""Too Big to Fail.""  They were egotists and  dishonorable people doing the wrong things, who believed they were  special and above the law.  A peer reviewed process was basically the  only thing that may have kept them honest.  They ended up in some sort  of buddy system with law enforcement and other like minded people.  What  may have happened given the process was corrupted?

New Article:  ""[Harvard Official Bans Sex Between undergraduate students and teachers](https://www.theguardian.com/education/2015/feb/05/harvard-bans-sex-undergraduate-students-professors)""

Are  you familiar with National Lampoon?  Movies like ""Vegas Vacation"" or  ""Animal House"" or ""Caddyshack?""  Funny right?  Classics?  National  Lampoon came from Harvard Graduates who liked cocaine and prostitutes.  Said news article implies there was a problem.  A problem with  ""self-centered seekers of pleasure,"" egotists, and dishonorable people,  doing the wrong things.  Given there is corruption in one aspect of  someone's life, it may have worked its way into the peer reviewed  process, and their public life as well.   Honor never stopped being  important.

Link:  [Academic Honesty in the Humanities](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/dinjd2/academic_honesty_in_the_humanities/) from [r/gradschool](https://www.reddit.com/r/gradschool/).

Coming over to [r/gradschool](https://www.reddit.com/r/gradschool/),  it has not been hard to find implications of wrong doing.  Honor is an  important.  Who is this message most for?  Programs.  Entire  Universities who may end up similar to what happened to Penn State.   They have had false philosophies and reject God Almighty, and were given  over to dishonorable passions.  Their fruit has tricked down into  society.

Doing  the right thing may be hard.  Some people worked to sweep wrong doing  under the rug, or looked the other way.  Wrong doing in Academia has  been public knowledge similar to how what Harvey Weinstein was doing,  was public knowledge in his peer group.  I got news for you, cleaning  that mess up may be hard.  It may come swift and suddenly.

Song:  [Hard Day Coming Down](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1pDffOtg9Lc).",16,0,1.1204944476926768,college
anyone in music know if music therapy is a worthwhile degree?,i’m trying to decide what i want to major in and i’m stuck between music therapy or plain old psych and becoming a counselor of sorts. i love music i’ve been playing piano for 12 years now and i’ve gained support from my music teachers and my mom. the idea of being able to land a job as a music therapist and getting a decent enough pay is my absolute dream however it is still terrifying. the job market is tough for music majors and music therapy programs are hard af. i’m scared of not being good enough and not having time to do anything bc i’m gonna be practicing 6 hours a day for there to be a possibility that i can’t even get a job. is getting this degree worthwhile?,3,1,1.1212583365815658,college
Does your college offer workshops/seminars? Can you use these Incase you fall to part time?,"I can’t afford to fall to part time. I don’t want to say the word because it will auto get told to move to the “withd****” thread. Whenever that word is used post is removed for some reason. 

But anyway, does anyone understand what I’m saying? If I drop under full time I lose my scholarship money. And there is a good chance that will happen this semester.

Anyone do this ever?

The seminars are one credit each and most of them aren’t even related to my major.",1,2,1.155668058803788,college
Does it make sense to change major because if required classes?,"So I'm currently a freshmen at university and I'm going for a bachalors in applied math computer science. Currently I'm failing my calc 1 class, and I still have to take calc 2 & 3, then some advanced math classes after that. I'm considering changing my major to computer information systems or something like it because they dont require such high level math classes. Is this a stupid thought process or does it make sense?",7,3,1.1640245402852694,college
Need opinions,"I’m a little behind in classes and I want to get out of my community college as fast as possible and transfer to Rutgers so I can be with all my friends there and live the dorm life with them. To do this I need to do 9 classes before I finish my associates, and I would like to be at Rutgers by one year from today, so after one more semester. So I have a few options to do this:
1. I take 3 courses in the summer and 6 in the spring semester (I’m technically taking 6 now (if you count physics lab as a separate course from physics) and I’m doing fine.
2. I take 7 courses next semester, I might be able to do this but i am taking some difficult courses, such as discreet math and data structures 
3. I take a winter courses and 6 courses next semester and 2 summer courses, this idea isn’t too bad for me but I would like to chill out during winter break and hang out with friends and work where I work seasonally, because if I choose this, I won’t have any life from Jan 2- Jan 15 since the class is 1-5 Monday-Friday 

What option do you guys think I should do? I would REALLY prefer not to spend another semester here after the spring one so is any of this plausible or am I doomed to spend that extra semester? Also I’m trying to keep my GPA at LEAST a 3.5 so I hope I don’t danger myself of going lower than that if i overload myself",3,0,1.1731912069519361,college
"I think I failed an exam and I’m kicking my self for it, and worried about the class.","I just had an exam for my psychology class, and I think I did really poor on it. I think I did well on the essays I had to write prior to the exam but think I didn’t do very well on the exam it’s self. Exams are worth 50% of your grade for the class, which is why I’m stressing cause there’s only two of them. I won’t get my grade til Monday but I don’t have high hopes, I’m not a very good test taker. But I calculated if I land atleast Bs for the rest of my assignments, papers, quizzes and the final exam I can pass the class with a C+ or B-. But now I’m paranoid cause I literally have no room for error for the rest of the class.",2,1,1.177114818063047,college
"Im going to fail in a class I have done all the work in, i dont know what to do...","Im in a computer science course that has a lab attached to it.  This lab has enough weight in the grade that basically your grade is determined by the lab.

The TA that is in charge of the lab uses a program he wrote to automatically grade assignments so he doesn't have to.  

Something in the formatting of my zip files has caused this program to not recognize the assignments i have been turning in, so i have a zero for the lab. 

Now i know its on me for not checking my grades online sooner but do i have no recourse?

His system keeps time logs that i have access to that proves i turned assignments in on time and preserves what i turned in so i can prove that they worked as intentioned at the time i turned them in, however he refuses to go back and take a second look at them and says i need to re submit to his automatic system that just gives me a zero without opening my files...

I tried talking to the professor but he just says its the TA's responsibility and im at my wits end as what to do... looking for some help here, anything would be helpful",8,2,1.1951125032482324,college
What minor is good for 'International Relations'?,"I just found out that I can choose a minor next semester. I hadn't thought too much about it before, as in my country it's not normal to do so. My options are: Statistics, Journalism, Tourism, History&Politics, Finance, Economics, Law, and Communications.

I would have pursued a career in journalism if it weren't for the job market here. But I don't want to miss the opportunity of getting a minor that is maybe more interesting or marketable, and then try and get a job as a Journalist in the future. 

What do you guys think about this? Should I consider 'marketable' options, such as Stats or Law, or go to Journalism? What are the pros/cons of each minor?

Thanks in advance",9,3,1.2050083365815658,college
Is it illegal to ask my private art college what they spend tuition on?,,5,1,1.2080870402852695,college
Meeting with the dean,"Im 26, Ive been on academic suspension for a year now at my community college( Northern Virginia Community college, it sucks I hate it) My academic advisor has given up on meeting with me( ive missed a few meetings due to not being able to get to school, I know I really need a car but living in Virginia seems no one is hiring right now ) She has told me to set up a meeting with the dean. Ive set one up for next week. He wants to have a frank conversation with me about me finishing my degree. The back of my mind has doubts about finishing. I feel like im only doing this because I have to have a degree to be successful in life, according to my Mom( who never went to college). How can I can convince the dean that I want to return to finish? How can I motivate myself, when all I want to do is just find a job, save up so I can move out my Mom’s house( she is really on the verge of kicking me out)?",3,1,1.2129134291741583,college
Associates in Arts or Science?,"Just spoke with an advisor and was told that with the classes i’ve taken in the past and currently taking, i can apply for my 2-year graduation and transfer to a 4 year university by next semester, however that would be with an associates in Arts. Advisor also told me that i could take one more science class and graduate with an associates in Science. Fyi my degree plan is a BS in Criminal Justice and have been in community college for almost 3 years now. Is it better to just graduate already from 2 year college or take one more science class?",2,1,1.2198694476926768,college
What is it like majoring in neuroscience/neurobiology?,"I am a high school senior and know the major I want can change, but I am definitely interested in neuroscience.",0,1,1.2291750032482323,college
Brainstorming article ideas for a college newspaper--Any suggestions? (Topics you'd find interesting or helpful/useful??),"(Forgot to write thank you to anyone that takes the time to write anything here, thank you ★ )",2,2,1.2358648180630472,college
What are some creative ways to make money as a college student?,,9,2,1.242681947692677,college
About to fail my Spanish midterm. Don't be like me.,Didn't study for my midterm and the oral part with my professor is in an hour.  I've accepted my fate but everyone please study lol,6,4,1.2496495402852694,college
"if a roommate is bullying you, which is more likely—you get kicked out, the roommate gets kicked out, or you have to suck it up?","i live in a suite with 4 people. my two other roommates (guys) see that my girl roommate is making my life hell everywhere i go. i’m trying to schedule a meeting with my residence hall director to see what my options are, but he’s been hard to reach so now the program director of a sports organization i am in is stepping in to get the ball rolling.

so, what is likely to happen? if both of my male roommates testify for me that she is bullying me (as in, cornering me and screaming at me, spreading rumors anywhere she can to kill my credibility, etc to the point that i am afraid to be near her and have to always have audio recording ready, and yes my guy roommates will testify for me, we have discussed it), is it more likely a) i will be kicked out of the dorm because i’m the one having the issue, b) she will get kicked out because she is the one making the issue, or c) we will be told to go to counseling together to “work it out”?

before anyone says the counseling option should be the way to go—please trust me when i say it is beyond that point. i *do not feel safe* in my home and i *do not feel safe* anywhere near her. i have to have one of my male roommates with me at all times and lock any door i am behind. i don’t think she would physically attack me, but i can’t say i’m confident she won’t corner me again or try to damage/steal my property.",8,1,1.2532259291741583,college
STEM: Am I expected to go further beyond the coursework?,"Hello, I am a junior studying microbiology, and it seems like I am not doing enough compared to the rest of my graduating year. I have passed my classes with an ok gpa (3.1), but most people in my year either have 1) jobs 2)internships or 3) close connections to professors and big networks. Am I late to the party on this? Am I expected to go further beyond the coursework and do more? 
Since I am late, I was thinking of just cutting my losses and leaving college. I don't plan to go to graduate school immediately after undergrad,  nor do I want to switch majors this late. My gpa and resume wouldn't help my get work or into graduate school anyways. I appreciate the honest answers and thank you for reading :)",4,8,1.2646495402852695,college
How do you guys stay motivated by your gen eds?,"Knowing damn well that you will never use that information ever again after school, at least for most of the subjects.

The only purpose they serve is to get my degree. Yeah obviously that means they are important but for the wrong reasons. And no, they don’t make me “a well-rounded individual.” I know college is a business but man... can’t we find a better way to set it up? For me, it just feels like the school taking my money while also making me work on things I have no interest in and will never use. How can that motivate anyone?

Every year I just realize that college really never was for me, but I’m a senior so I’m not turning back now obviously. If I go do it again I’d probably go for a trade instead.

What are your opinions and thoughts on gen eds? And how do you stay motivated, other than the fact that they are required?",10,1,1.2766750032482324,college
How do you not have too many acquaintances?,"How do you balance your relationships in a way that you dont feel burnt out by knowing way too many people, where did you personally draw that line?",1,1,1.27851528102601,college
Can I still pass Calculus I?,"Currently majoring in Computer Science with 15 credit hours. 5 of those hours are from Calc 1. I’ve taken 2 exams out of the 4, making a 45 on the first and knowing that I bombed the other ( haven’t received the grade yet). The professor will replace the lowest test score with the cumulative final exam. Do I have any chance of passing or should I drop the class before the deadline? 

Here’s my professors syllabus 
[Calculus Syllabus ](https://imgur.com/gallery/s6ETJId)",6,2,1.2793486143593436,college
Experience with winter credits?,Hi I wondering who has experience taking winter classes online? How many classes did you take? I’m planning on taking 1 course for 3 credits. Would 2 classes be too much workload? I’m also working 32 hours a week at my job.,2,2,1.2946263921371213,college
Are you allowed to retake courses even if you didn't fail them?,"Cause I want to retake a course I didn't learn enough in cause it's accelerated. 

They're offering a second half accelerated course. I originally was going to take an incomplete grade but I think it was going to mess up my scholarship money if I did that. So instead I am doing this. 

Is this always possible? I want to take the second 8 week course of the same class... how dumb am I going to look?",6,2,1.302068521766751,college
Cheap Online CALCULUS 2 class?,"Hello guys!

I’m looking to take a Calculus 2 class online and then transfer it back to my school, can you point me which accredited universities have the cheapest online courses available? 

I really appreciate it!",2,0,1.304290743988973,college
I’m a loser who has let himself almost be kicked out of university. What are my options?,"I’m a sophomore and it’s taken me four years of dragging my ass to get here. I’m barely making it. I have a GPA less than a 2.0. I can’t drop any classes because if I drop one more I lose financial aid. If I fail another I lose financial aid. I never thought it would be like this. I thought I’d do so well in college but I’ve put myself in such a bad position that I see no way out. I’m in debt with nothing to show for it and high aspirations that will never amount to anything. I am the definition of a failure and I don’t know what to do. 

It started off with me simply not showing up to class or not doing the work like a dumbass. Now that I’m actually trying to give a shit, it’s too late. I’m in a class right now that I’m sure I’m going to fail and it’s all my fault. My depression medication isn’t working apparently.",7,4,1.3107953736186027,college
Organizer for course registration?,"I have to register for my spring courses soon, but I'm struggling to create a schedule and backup schedule. Is there some kind of website or app that can help me organize my classes and create backups so I know my schedule will work if some classes are full by the time I register?",1,1,1.3113856513963806,college
Going home with your family and forgetting to bring things to campus?,"It’s the worst. Has anyone else done this?

I forgot my fall jacket and only brought two sweaters for the week and I’m waiting for shuttles outside! It’s 50 degrees outside where I live BTW—it gets cold here in the fall. I also forgot a lot of my art supplies that I use for fun.",1,1,1.3142328736186026,college
Trouble deciding my majors.,"So, I am entering college next school year, and I am contemplating the majors I would like to study. My career aspiration is to become a medical doctor and hopefully specialize in neurosurgery. I cannot decide if a biology and psychology double major or a biology and chemistry double major is best. Please give your thoughts on which would be most beneficial to do.",2,1,1.3358648180630472,college
I need to appeal my financial aid standing...,"I started out a community college back in fall 2017, I originally started down the path of getting a certificate but after researching I learned that these certificates aren't really respected in the cs field so I changed to go for the associate/bachelor - The school is telling me that I am approaching the 90 credit limit and need to appeal to get more financial aid. She says it is pretty normal/common for people to change their degree plan so I will obviously include that as a reason. However, I took two pretty hard classes this semester and I was rear-ended in a car accident about a month into the semester. My car was totaled, doctor said I had a mild concussion and it was very stressful dealing with it along with the stressful classes, I ended up withdrawing from one of the classes partly because of it. I am thinking I might include this as a reason, I figure they might be more sympathetic and give me a bit more. Is there any chance of that or am I grasping at straws with this?",0,1,1.3358763921371213,college
Should I Take a Break for a Semester?,"I feel like the initial knee-jerk reaction to seeing the title is going to be ""of course not! you've got this!"" but I'm starting to feel like it's my only option at this point.

The reason I'm wanting to take a semester break from college is because of financial issues. I do have a great scholarship from my school for $5,000 per semester which pretty much takes away half of my bill, but at the same time paying for that other half becomes the issue. I was able to apply for a federal loan for $15,000 but looking into it, I am apparently only eligible for part of what I requested due to how much my parents make. So I'm still stuck with my remaining amount of $3,000 to pay out-of pocket.

Just like my other siblings that went to college, college is something I have to either pay for myself or take out student loans. Right now, both of my parents have student loans for my older brother who just finished college, so neither are able to apply for a student loan for me.

Basically, I'm asking if it's a good idea to take a semester off from college (since I can't apply for spring semester classes until I have my bill completely paid) and just work from late December up until Mid-August to save up money to be able to pay for some of my bill and also give my brother time to hopefully pay back one of my parents? 

If you have any advice for someone in my situation, I would appreciate it. Thank you.",2,1,1.3427629662111955,college
i’m not sure about what i wanna do after i graduate,"okay so i’m a physics major and i have a year and a half till i graduate with my degree. i thought i was really into physics i’m school and that’s how i picked my major. however, after coming to college i realised that physics is not for me and i won’t be able to continue with it after college. 

since i need to change my career path, i’ve been applying to internships (mostly pertaining to banking, as these are the kinds of companies that come on campus to hire) but haven’t been shortlisted for a single one yet. i feel bad because most of my acquaintances are making it to the shortlist; but the thing is, i’m not really interested in jobs like that either, and prolly wouldn’t enjoy the job even if i got it. i apply for the heck of it and feel bad when i don’t succeed. 

i’m not active in many clubs in college either as my college schedule is pretty packed and i have no energy left at the end of the day. 

idk what i like anymore now and i feel very lost. please help.",0,1,1.3514898180630472,college
My university has a required class at bad times and it's costing me. Is there anything I can do?,"So first thing is that I'm a commuter. I make a 50-minute commute every morning and afternoon I have class (two hours a day). I do this because housing costs are out of my budget, and I don't want to take on more loans. I have to take a beginner class for my major to get access to the rest of the classes in the program (at least 10 - I don't have to take them all, but I can't sign up for them until this ONE class is passed). 

I'm already (halfway through) junior year, and every semester this class is scheduled from 6:00-7:40 PM Tuesdays and Thursdays. Only two professors teach this class, and busing to parking lots doesn't run that late. I'd be getting home around 9:00 PM. I've told my adviser and their department head repeatedly that this class is preventing me from moving on, and is costing me time and money (that I don't have a lot of). Their solution? Find a community college that can transfer the credits or basically I'm SOL. Starting to feel like once a university has your money they don't care what happens.

tl;dr my school has classes at inaccessible times unless you are close to/on campus and don't work- they don't seem to actually try to do something about it either. Anything I can do?",9,0,1.36658241065564,college
Oprah Surprises Morehouse College With $13 Million Donation,,0,0,1.3678092625074916,college
Room Change,is it worth changing room next semester if I want to room with my friend? I would have to bring everything home over Christmas break and then bring everything to a new room OR communicate with my now roommate about stuff that like cleaning the bathroom and stuff and stay in the room I am in now.,1,1,1.3831217625074916,college
Did I handle this roommate situation poorly? Any advice?,"To start off, sometimes I lack social skills and I struggle with panic attacks. From the beginning of the year, my college roommate and I would talk a little bit and stuff, but as the 1st semester went on, she was really quiet. I will say she was out of the room more than me (she had a job), but when she was in the room, she never talked to me first. (Though in the summer she did say she was an introvert before school started). I would sometimes try to be friendly like offering her cookies. She would say, ""No, I'm good."" She was coughing one day and I offered her some cough drops. She was like, ""Oh, I'm good. I just have lots of phlegm sometimes."" I responded, ""You know, they have medicine for that."" She didn't say anything after. I just got bad vibes from her. She didn't smile enough, and when she did, it looked fake. She was really guarded. I noticed when she did her makeup in the room, she would turn her back to me if I walked by her side of the room. She did the same at night. I would walk by her side of the room and she would turn her chair while she was wiping off her makeup...At night, she would purposely not face me if she hung something in her closet. She kept her back to me as she walked back to her desk. Then, mid-semester, she started doing things that bothered me, such as changing menstrual pads in the dorm room (our beds are lofted with desks and drawers underneath, so I never saw her do it, but I could hear the wrapper when she was at her desk and I know she threw them in the trash. She at least wrapped them, but still), leaving her desk light on way too late/early, not taking out the trash as much as me, using my plastic silverware too much (I said she could also use it, but I hid it because she used it too often) and leaving her laundry basket in the way. Eventually, we had bed bugs. I asked her if we were going to get reimbursed for this, and she looked uncomfortable and didn't say anything. Then I was like, ""You don't know, do you?"" She said, ""Yeah, sorry Idk."" She was super grumpy the day we bagged our stuff (due to the bugs) and slammed the door. She also glared at me a few times.

I told the RA that I didn't feel safe, it was an unfriendly environment, and I was scared she'd judge me if I confronted her about the tidiness. My roommate was irritated that I didn't talk to her first, and basically implied that I was being immature, and she said ""Saying you don't feel safe is a very bold claim to make, and I don't believe you're scared of me...""

Later in the agreement, I said, ""sanitary napkins should be changed in the bathroom, because I looked this up and body fluids spread disease and pests and that ALSO makes me feel UNSAFE."" I looked at my roommate dead in the face when I said that, and my roommate seemed a bit taken back. I wanted to show that I wasn't scared of my roommate....but she left and cried at the end of the meeting.

2nd semester, she apologized for making me feel uncomfortable and brought me oreos. Then everything was friendly. However, my guy friend started talking to her even after I told him the weird stuff she did. One day he invited her to go to the mall with us when it was just supposed to be us 2. I told him ""I don't know why you'd want to be friends with her but whatever."" I was nervous she'd talk about me behind my back which is why I didn't want him to text her.

Eventually, my college roommate sent me this long text at the end of the year, confronting me for everything I said to her. She basically said I had a condescending attitude, that I was judgmental, and didn't belong in the psychology field.

For example, one time (in person) she said, ""I'm not trying to avoid the room or anything, I'm just not here most of the time because I've been working a lot."" I said, ""Oh, I don't have a job because my parents have good jobs, and I got lots of scholarships because I'm smart, or at least that's what people say.""

She also was talking casually about how she hoped her skin didn't look too oily. I was like, ""let me see."" She says, ""uhh no...."" I was like, don't worry I won't judge."" I got up in her face and looked at her skin and said, ""Oh, you just have large pores. I have small ones.""

There was also a time when she asked if the school internet was working for me. I said, ""Yes, I have unlimited data on my phone.""

She also showed me her theatre headshots a different day, because she wanted her top 10 chosen for the photographer to edit. I said, ""To edit this, I would take out the red part on your forehead, and then sculpt your cheekbones, but idk what the acting industry likes"".

Lastly, there was a time I asked her how she felt about her audition when she came back

Her: ""I was nervous but happy to get it over with""

Me: ""I mean, you're not an A-class actor,  but for what you're trying to do, it was pretty good. You didn't need to worry. ""

She also said she was aware I talked behind her back to my guy friend. Those were just a few things she confronted me about in her text.",14,0,1.3956333365815656,college
Does a class with less credits mean it will be not as hard/time consuming?,"I work 40 hours a week as is. This semester I'm taking 12 credits, which is 3 classes and I'm swapped and usually overwhelmed. 

Next semester I'm supposed to take 4 classes, but it ends up only being 9 credits. 

I'm hoping that because it's less credits, it won't be so hard but I don't know if that's how it generally works.

Thanks for any feedback",4,1,1.397855558803788,college
iPad or maybe iPad mini for note taking during lectures?,"Hey, 
At the moment I am using a surface pro for taking handwritten (rarely typed) notes. But my surface is really old and doesn’t work properly anymore. I would love to have something smaller/lighter but I don’t know what. I already have a real ultra book (windows) and don’t know if a surface is worth it. Cause the new ones are so powerful that they are more notebooks than tablets. 
So do you think the iPad mini is too small? And that I should take a normal iPad or do you have another tablet I should try? Honestly I don’t have any budget and I’m really open to everything :) 
Thank you. 

PS: i am studying architecture and have many sketches in my notes so a good pencil would be quite useful.",16,3,1.3979018551000841,college
How Big is Your School?,"How Big is Your College? This can be answered in various ways like:

Campus size

Number of Students

(a guess) On the Average Number of Students In a Class

Also, Do You Like The Size of Your College? Elaborate!",19,5,1.417566206951936,college
Letter of Recommendation,How do I gently remind a professor that my deadline for a scholarship is coming up and I need his letter soon? I’ve already asked him around 2-3 times. Last time I asked it was about a week and half ago. Any advice?,2,2,1.4258185217667507,college
How to deal with messed up schedule?,"I was wondering how could I manage to go through a really bad schedule for my first semester?

I mean Monday, Wednesday & Friday I start at 1.

But on Tuesday & Thursday I start at 8. 

I try waking up at 10-ish on the days I have classes starting at 1 but I have a lot of free time since uni is 8 minutes away BY FOOT.

Any tips?",2,1,1.4410500032482323,college
Should I cut my teammates out of the final paper?,"Background details: we are all graduate students and we are (allegedly) working on the capstone project.

Things had been going well (or so I thought). However, issues started when the paper actually had to be written. It's due tonight and I'm the only one who has written more than a paragraph (ok, I've written 15 pages) in the paper.

I'm tempted to just write small summaries of their parts, take their names off the paper, submit it, and then explain the whole thing to the Prof.

Any advice?

Edit: I sent the group a text about our scheduled meeting. I reflected on the need to make sure we tie all of our sections (which had just been chunks of my writing, blanks sections with their names in them, and more of my writing) together. They are now suddenly adding more than a paragraph at a time. 😱

Edit 2: we met to proof the paper and found an important element that one of the team members didn't complete. When asked why it wasn't completed, the response was that the person didn't feel like doing it. Yeah, that's not an option. Same teammate also got annoyed when I asked why one of the parts of the lit review didn't have any paragraphs. It was literally just pages of words with no real semblance of order. I should not have to be having a conversation about why paragraphs need to be utilized.",14,32,1.484742132877862,college
Implications of a part-time semester/withdraws?,"In short summary, for background: 

In Summer 2018, heading into what would have been my freshman year at UC San Diego, my mental state regarding college and life in general severely worsened enough to the point where I had to withdraw my intent to attend and instead enroll at a local community college. 

Fast-forward to now, a sophomore, I’m still burdened with a significant amount of mental issues, but I’m doing everything I can right now to try and transfer at the end of this year. As it turns out, I’ve taken on too much this semester. I’ve worked my way up from 2 classes (and an internship) in Fall 2018, 3 classes in Spring 2019 (with a withdrawal unfortunately just after the deadline) and I’m now taking 5 classes. However, I’m only barely mentally staying together, and want to drop a class. Only thing is, my classes are only 13 credits, 3 (Anthropology)/ 1 (Anthropology Lab) / 3 (Sociology) / 3 (Poli Sci) / 3 (Poli Sci). I’m looking to drop one of my Poli Sci classes, but the date to drop the class without a W has long past. This leads to 2 issues. 

1. Will taking only 10 credit/hours this semester reflect poorly on my transcript, even if those 10 credits are over 4 classes?

2. Will my 2nd withdraw make too much of a dent on my overall standing in the eyes of admissions offices?

Thanks for any help.",0,2,1.5710384291741581,college
What's the absolute WORST teacher you've ever had at school?,,8,7,1.5744759291741584,college
Feel like an idiot but it’s too late now,I’ve had a horrible year and I don’t know how to get out of this hole. I got 3 C+’s and just withdrew from a class today. My gpa is sitting at 3.3 right now and I feel like it’s going downhill from here. I can never get higher than a 70 on my exams these days. No matter how much I study. One of my professors randomly called on me and I froze up and now I feel like everyone thinks I’m stupid :/. I just feel invisible and no ones there for me at such a big school so I get lost in my head. Any words of advice/encouragement would be appreciated.,2,1,1.6008995402852693,college
What to do after college without majoring in something “useful?”,"For context, I’m a junior at one of the best universities in the world, but at the same time, majoring in English, which is a pretty useless major for industry

However, because I’m a junior, I don’t have the time to switch my major to a more “useful” major since my school kicks me out after like four more semesters, and the best I can do is to add a minor (which I’m heavily considering about)

I’ve always thought to go to law school, but based on what I think my gpa is gonna be after graduation (tho it’s pretty decent right now, just don’t know if I can hold it any longer since I’m getting burnt out), I don’t even know if I’d be able to get into a good law school or not

I’m thinking about minoring in CS or data science (which my school is also great in), but that would require A LOT of work every semester (think 20+ units). This might tank my currently pretty solid gpa, but if I can get a decent job from this right after college, Id gladly take this option

So, even then, what can I do with an English major and a CS/data science minor? Who would look for a background like that? Are there any employers who would like that?

If not, what types of corporate jobs can I even get with solely an English major? I have experience in journalism, and that taught me that I dislike journalism with a passion. I know I don’t like teaching from my tutoring background. I feel like I like the ‘business-y’ side of things, but I have no idea where/how to go about

Any insights?",8,1,1.632253706951936,college
Midterms,"Soo my English teacher legit dropped it on us this Monday that Wednesday(today) is our midterm. He hasn’t taught us about the 3 categories of character development, I’ve legit been googling this for almost two solid days now and have looked in the book but I can not find out what this word mean when it comes to literacy the word is liminality, does anyone know what this word means or what it means to character development as well as equilibrium.",1,0,1.6562583365815657,college
Work-Life Balancing Tips,"Computer Science major here.

I'm honestly frustrated with the difficulty of calculus...it seems that going to a tutor daily and plainly studying for hours on end is never enough. I've accomplished Calculus 1 with an A-, Calculus 2 with a B, and now I'm on Calculus 3. It's only the 4th week of school, but I'm already frustrated with the workload.

It seems I can never have a social life because I'm too busy studying. No one in my Calculus class really seems to communicate either. But, I'm plainly anti-social as well.

My whole freshmen year of college was DEVOTED to going from Pre-Calculus 2 to Calculus 3. I honestly never had enough time for anything outside of studies, it was plainly depressing.

This fall quarter, I've begun an intro to CS class (love it), but I need to know ahead: does the difficulty of CS rapidly increase in university? I'm utterly concerned because I can't balance 3 classes too well.

Okay, thank you for your time. If you have any tips, please say so! I've tried getting help and it's only somewhat effective!",0,1,1.6825430588037877,college
When do they finalize GPA,I'm graduating this december. I am currently sitting at a 3.47 gpa and by the end of this semester I will have at least a 3.5 assuming everything goes well. Will they let me graduate with honors or do they take your gpa at the time of applying for graduation,1,1,1.6833532439889731,college
On the verge of dropping out. Need advice.,"Basically the title says it all. I have been attending university for a year and 2 months now fresh out of high school, and honestly I absolutely hate everything about the university I'm in. The people are awful and it's incredibly hard to make friends in such a judging atmosphere. My social anxiety has gotten so much since attending university, and I know it's not just me because literally everybody I talked to says the same. You just never feel comfortable in you own skin. In fact, the moment I stepped foot in it I knew it wasn't the right place for me. Don't get me wrong, I was so excited to finally be done with HS and that I would be in a much more open and frindly environment when I attend uni, and actually have a shot at making authentic friendships. But it basically went from bad to worse.
 I've been procrastinating a lot, because I've had enough, and my grades are truly suffering. I really feel burnt out and tired and I cannot bear to look at a textbook anymore. The thing is I need to get at least an A or B+ on a specific class to get into the program I want ( physical therapy) and even then I dont think I'll like it but it is the least shitty program they have.
Everybody keeps telling me that it'll pass, or that I  shoud just pull thru those remaining years. But I don't want that to be my college experience!! I dont want to graduate without making friends or having fun cause I will never get that time back. I've been thinking about taking a semster off to sort myself out, but that might put me a year behind my program (I'm completely fine with that).
To be clear, I'm more than willing to go to university, but just not this one. I just need time to pull myself together and find a program I'm actually interested in. I'm lost and I need advice on what I should do, and please do tell me if I'm just being an overdramatic brat.",2,1,1.72664028102601,college
My roommate keeps turning the light on,"I keep asking my roommate if I could turn the light off at around 11 and she'll say ""Let me take a shower first."" Then she takes a shower at 12, comes back in and turns the light on, makes a bunch of noise, turns the light off and leaves. Rinse and repeat until like 2am. One time when I was spending the night at my boyfriends I came back in to get something at 2am (trying to be quiet of course) and the light was still on, my other roommate was sleeping with a blanket over her head while the roommate who left the light on is passed out with Netflix playing on her laptop (with no headphones). I've brought this up to her and she just says sorry but continues to do it. I'm going insane, I've been spending a lot of nights with my boyfriend because I just can't sleep in my room but I don't want to do that because I have my cat in my room and I feel bad because he likes to sleep with me. There's no space for me or her to move into another room so I'm just stuck.",5,7,1.7430523180630473,college
"People who are applying to transfer to another university in fall 2020, when are you starting your applications?",^^^^ Im applying to transfer as a third year for fall 2020. Most of the schools im applying to have deadlines of March 1st 2020. When are you all starting your applications?,2,8,1.7584342625074916,college
What nyc colleges are lower priced and fun with a campus?,"So I was looking into the city college of New York and I absolutely love their campus, location, education, and pricing. However apparently it’s really dull socially and there’s no parties and you rarely make friends. I know that’s dumb to most people but I didn’t get the high school experience so socials and parties are kind of important to me. Does anyone know of colleges in New York with similar campuses and education but with more social life?",1,2,1.7604134291741584,college
Anyone have any good grade come back stories?,"Like you did not that good on the first midterm but really grinded and did well on the other exams and managed to get an a? Kinda feeling down and stupid after my first midterm performance, especially as a freshman.",6,3,1.7645222254704547,college
I am confused on what this means. It is a prerequisite for a PA program. Help?,,1,1,1.789279169914899,college
Help needed with the topic of anatomy assignment!,"I'm traditional Chinese medicine student and recently my lecturer asked us to prepare an assignment, it can be anything as long as the topic is related to anatomy. But I honestly can't think of an interesting topic to do resreach on, and so far I've learned about intro to anatomy, respiratory system, urinary system and circulatory system. The lecturer also mentioned that he would like to see us relate anatomy to the perspective of traditional Chinese medicine. Any advises / help will be very much appreciated! 

Ps: forgive me for my bad English, English is not my mother tongue.",0,1,1.7955870402852694,college
"Looking to transfer into a different school for Spring, did I miss my chance?","I'm very unhappy at my school (currently a Sophomore) for a lot of reasons (subpar CS program, cold weather, high school 2.0 vibe, etc). A less important reason as to why I want to transfer sooner rather than later is because I failed a midterm already this semester, which will weigh sort of heavy on my gpa.

I'd love any advice, thank you.",1,1,1.8004828736186027,college
"Any older than ""typical"" undergrad students feeling like this?","I'm 28 (pretty close to 29) and dropped out of college five years ago. Now that I have a better plan for my career and a lot more direction and focus, I decided to go back to school and finish my degree. As a transfer student and an older undergrad, it's kind of weird being older than pretty much everyone in my class. I'm pretty sure I'm older than one of my professors. I'm definitely older than the TA's. I'm so glad I'm finally working on my goals, and I do actually enjoy being here, in addition to just being really grateful for the opportunity. But goddamn, it is lonely! The people in my classes seem like kids to me. I sit in class next to someone who has never written a resume or had a job, and someone who is learning to do laundry for the first time. I've had several good jobs (not like amazing careers, but I've worked in management and healthcare as opposed to just entry level stuff). I've been engaged, had some health issues and dealt with lots of family stuff, been financially independent for ten years now, and just generally feel so OLD. I know a lot of the students have also seen some shit and I have a lot of respect for their maturity for their age. I just feel sort of lost and alone. I wish I had just stuck with school when it was age-appropriate!


Has anyone else experienced something similar?",19,16,1.8024041699148992,college
Which leadership role should I take?,"I was elected as Secretary and Treasurer for my dorm building. I need to pick which position I want and could use some advice.

I feel like the secretary position might be more fitting for me, but it also sounds boring compared to treasurer. I am interested in the treasurer position because I like dealing with money and feel like this position looks better when I run for other leadership roles. I am also considering going into business, and I think that treasurer is more fitting for that. The treasurer position is more time consuming than secretary, and seems like it is more responsibility. I would have a credit card and be responsible for purchases, which makes me nervous, but I see this as an opportunity for growth.

Which one do you think that I should pick? Thank you for any advice.",8,3,1.8256912069519362,college
Artists: should I join my honor's society & is a 2 year degree enough?,"Hi Everyone, 

I'm currently in a community college with an AMAZING art/digital art program but I'm wondering if an AA/certificate + portfolio is enough to be considered for a job? Dream job would be working for Cartoon Network as a background/layout artist.

I was also invited to join 2 honor societies (which is super exciting), but I'm not sure if it's worth joining... I wouldn't be able to be active as I live 1-2 hours away by train and will be going 12 units starting next semester + hopefully an internship. 

Back story: I already have my degree, but recently went back to school to follow my passion for Art. I already have my bachelor's in something non-related to art.

Scholarships/Financial Aid normally isn't given to students that already have their bachelor's and are going for a 2nd one (thats why I'm hesitant to go to a 4 year). And, I can't get into a master's program without having a bachelor's in Art.

**TLDR:**

1. Is an AA or Certificate + portfolio enough to get a job at Cartoon Network/Animation studio?
2. Should I join 2 honor societies if I'm going to be an artist and if I probably can't devote much time to it? 

Thank you so much for your help! *Also, Friendly reminder, do your FAFSA!*",0,2,1.8296032439889731,college
Anyone else struggle with motivation a ridiculous amount every Spring semester?,"Idk why but every spring semester about halfway through I completely lose motivation to go to my classes, like this week I only went to class 2/5 days I was supposed to. This pretty much never happens in the fall and only in the spring :(",0,1,1.833364818063047,college
MANY part-time jobs (and other panicking),"Double Majoring in History and Environmental, told both majors don't lead to jobs. I am considering quitting a part-time job I really enjoy next spring because I won't have a ""business hours"" availability, but that means I'll be looking for another part-time job to fill the time because I will waste it otherwise. involved in clubs, but I really need a rigid schedule to keep myself in check. I also need work experience for future careers (see ""majors don't lead to jobs"") and my grades are only so-so. **My question: Doesn't it look bad to jump from job to job every 8 months or so? Is that normal for college?** Many more questions but I'll save those for later.",4,1,1.8440013921371212,college
Online classes,"I start my online classes next week for medical assistant, EKG and phlebotomy and was wondering if someone can guide me on how many hours a day I should put in for it. 

Medical assistant has 10 modules 
Phlembotomy has 5
EKG has 4
Then there’s 3 live sceneries  for a medical assistant 

I have a year to finish them and was told someone was able to finish it in 7months. 

There’s no extra curricular work I’d have to do",0,1,1.8458185217667509,college
"is it true that college has equal numbers of s*cial kids wishing they had better grades, and kids with high grades wishing they had fr*ends?",,7,1,1.8473000032482323,college
*Nursing students* What classes should I take together?,"Hi im currently working on my pre reqs for a nursing program in my community college. I have A&P I and Intro Chem left so I can apply. I was thinking about also taking Pharmacology, A&P II and Microbiology for a few extra points on my application. I am currently working full time and have a commute of about an hour to work and same for school. I was just wondering what classes would be good to take together without it being too hard and stressful. I’m thinking about taking 2-3 classes this upcoming spring semester. Thanks!",0,2,1.8684574106556397,college
Retaking a class at a Community college?,"Hello, I am trying to transfer to UC Davis as a computer science major, and I am in good standing currently, I just have one hiccup in my transcript. I received a C in calc 1, and I was wondering if I could retake the course at another community college to raise my GPA? It would boost my GPA greatly and would help my chances a lot.",1,1,1.8768370402852692,college
Ramen in Dorm,"My dorm's sink is quite a bit away and sometimes late at night I want to make a bowl of Ramen without having to walk down to wash a glass bowl. Is there any microwave-safe bowls that are soak-proof and are large enough to fit a brick of ramen (think maruchan but slightly bigger)? All the ones I have either  


soak and break at the bottom

deform and spill over the edge

Aren't big enough to contain the ramen brick, let alone the water.

&#x200B;

Amazon is preferred; I don't have a lot of stores near me. Thanks!

Edit: Disposable is probably the main priority, I'm already thinking of using cup noodles, but for like, soups etc.",4,1,1.8825083365815658,college
Anyone else holding on to their grades with essentially a wooden stick,"I have a 72 in one class, 73 in the other, and a 70 in one.


F
U
C
K

S
T
E
M",0,3,1.8893601884334175,college
Sophomore considering ANOTHER major change...help :(,"Hi everyone,

&#x200B;

I've been lurking here for a long time and you all have been so helpful. <3 So I'm currently a sophomore Biology student, in ochem and in the gen bio 1 course as well as a couple others since this is my first semester in the major. Essentially what my college career has been was starting off in computer engineering, changing to chemE before my freshman year began, hating it the first week, trying EE out for 2 weeks in the spring before dropping all but one classes to explore what I wanted to do, and then deciding on Biology and maybe Pre-Med. I took some summer classes and now I'm at where I am now.

I feel like I've passed the honeymoon phase in my major if you will. I used to find some interest in my classes but now I just feel like something's missing. For chemistry, I've hated every lab class I've ever taken and strongly disliked the lectures. We've been doing distillation in lab and it takes me an hour to even set up the glassware while it takes others like 10 min, and I've broken/messed up so many things. Not to mention all the labs I've hated before... I haven't ever enjoyed any of my labs period. I don't honestly know how much more chemistry I should make myself take.  I would need to take ochem 2 + lab, biochem 1, and biochem 2.

I have an issue with the biology side of my major, and that's the ethics/animal testing part. We did a worm protein assay and you had to cut and grind up live worms. Another groupmate did that while I did pipette work. I just feel really uncomfortable with knowingly harming a living thing for science or 'learning' purposes. It's a grey area for me. I guess I could see if like the life of one animal could cure a cancer...but how are my classes in my major going to involve animals? Who chose us to play God?

Okay, I'm almost done I swear. :) Another issue is the pre-med thing. I was planning to apply for a research position at a hospital that would happen this summer, as well as another research position that I'm trying to avoid the whole animal testing thing with. It would be a great opportunity, but if I'm questioning my path now then it seems pointless if I change my major.

I've always wanted to be involved in the field of aerospace, and I would love some sort of career that makes an impact. I don't just wanna work for a business that produces clothes or something, y'know? I'm doing so much better now because of all the clubs I'm in and my mental health is better, but things still feel off. I want to feel like me.

Help!",4,2,1.8896495402852695,college
Is there any website that has a big list of scholarships?,"I've looked into it before but I can't seem to find anything similar, and I'm surprised I haven't. Is there any website that just has a huge list of different types of scholarships people can get?",6,1,1.8947652810260103,college
Community College first then transfer credits to university?,"I have currently applied to University of Washington-Seattle as well as WSU, EWU, and CWU.

I really hope to get into aerospace engineering at UW but my high school career may not cut it but is likely fine for other schools. (All A's junior year and A's/B's soft-more, but my crummy freshman first semester has made my cumulative a 3.506, and my ACT was a composite 26). If I don't get accepted I'm planning to do mechanical somewhere else, likely WSU or just the cheapest option.

I'm staying hopeful but in the situation that I don't make the cut, is it possible that i take the per-requisites at community college with great grades then apply to complete an aerospace degree at UW? Is there something I have to fill out? I'm just really lost on the mechanics of actually doing that, but I'm often being told to consider it and it sounds like a fine plan.",6,1,1.9224504662111952,college
Does d2l see when you switch tabs for online quizzes?,My university uses d2l and I was wondering if they see that you switch tabs during a quiz. Would they know if I had a split screen and switch out of the quiz/had a dual monitor and switched to that?,2,2,1.9405986143593437,college
"Tips for balancing life, work, and school?","I’m an online student working towards getting my Associates in Psychology. I’m a little over halfway there (yay me!) but I’m under a loooot of stress. 

Thanks to FinAid mishaps that seem to happen to me pretty consistently, my last few semesters have been late start/short semesters (8 weeks instead of 16). I don’t necessarily mind that, because I can handle the pressure as long as I have the time to focus on it. But...I work two jobs and only have one off day a week. 

My semester started yesterday, and I already feel overwhelmed. I’m trying to find tips & tricks to help me manage my time, stay organized, and keep good notes/track of what I’m learning. If it helps, I’m taking World Lit II, US History II, Microcomputer Applications, and Abnormal Psychology. 

Is anyone else trying to pull this workload off too? How do you manage balancing work and school?",0,2,1.9435615773223065,college
Is it inappropriate to ask a professor if I am going to pass their class?,"I am struggling with chemistry for engineering like I have a 45 in the class struggling. I’ve heard the professor curves really well and he has said he drops the lowest exam grade, but I’m still worried if I’m going to pass. Would it be inappropriate to ask if I will pass or if I should drop the class?

Edit: Talked to my professor guys he said I’m on track to probably not pass but he gave me some advice for the final exam and said he’d grade my last exam sooner than the other so that I can make the drop date. He was really cool about it and was happy to help.",9,17,1.9488740773223066,college
Is Double Majoring a Good Idea?,"Hello! Prospective college student here,

I'm curious as to what y'all think about double majoring in two majors. I have had a friend post about double majoring in mechanical engineering and electrical engineering but all of the responses were opposing it. I asked in a different forum about a double major for Political Science and I got lots of positive responses. I understand that some majors are more demanding and such was wondering if double majoring in general is a good idea. Any thoughts/ideas? Is majoring then minoring in a subject a good idea compared to double majoring? Thanks!",6,4,1.9490129662111952,college
Any geology minors out there?,I’m thinking of getting a minor in geology if I have the space and money for it. Those of you have have it what do you think? Was it worth it? I’m majoring in liberal studies to be an elementary teacher. I love geology but I have only two classes taken and I need I think 21 credits( I still need to talk it over with my advisor). I want to also try teaching geology in the future so I feel like this can help me. So those of you who have it any thoughts?,4,3,1.951941206951936,college
Is it fair that only wealthy people can attend college or should everyone have access to higher education?,,10,0,1.954892595840825,college
Advice for coping as a college drop out?,"I'm really wanting to hear from a very specific type of college drop out.

I'm not talking about the type of person that you were studying a major because your parents told you it was a good major to go into, or you chose to go to college just for the parties and the social interaction. If your heart wasn't into it 100%, I'm not talking about you.

I'm referring to the sort of person that you had your heart set on a major that you really wanted extremely badly to the point where you believed it was your destiny to graduate in that major. And if you didn't succeed, you'd be so depressed to the point of being suicidal and your life would not ever, ever be complete without having had the freedom to accomplish your goal.

Say you are that sort of student, or you were that sort of student, and you're chugging along just fine with high marks and good progress and then suddenly life slaps you in the face. You can no longer afford college, you become homeless, you can't get a job and you're so depressed and suicidal about the thought of having to sit in the local library in your stinky clothes studying the subject you love with no hope of ever benefitting monetarily from your efforts. Your alone studying at the library, tears streaming down your face, no friends, no family. Nobody understands how you feel, nobody ""gets"" it.

 You love your subject but you have to live with the thought that someone else who maybe didn't love it as much as  you got the degree because they had the money, they had the looks, they had the friends, the support system. 

You have to live with this sadness for the rest of your life because you will probably never be able to afford to go back to school.
How do you/did you cope? Did you find another way to enjoy academics without having access to the same resources as a financially stable person?

I know life isn't fair and I'm being a baby but I honestly feel like I'm being denied my right to pursuit of happiness by being unable to attend classes. What are your thoughts?",1,0,1.9661888921371213,college
I have to research using only books. Any tips?,I’m in comp 1 and my professor is having us research someone in history but we can only use books. I’ve never had to do this before in my life so I feel like it’s going to be challenging not being able just to go on the internet and search up exactly what question I need like I’ve always done. Does anyone who has done this before have any tips that’s might be helpful?,4,2,1.9706101884334175,college
help me pick out my college courses!!! (please),"this is my first semester at cc. i'm majoring in english, minoring in business. i want to transfer my junior year but i have no idea what i'm doing. i know my advisor's supposed to help with this, but he seems really busy and i don't want to bug him. so far i've taken(taking)

Psych 101

English 101

Sociology 101

Theatre

Philosophy 131

Statistics

does anyone have a definitive list of what i should take, concerning my major, minor, and transferring?",12,1,1.9851703736186026,college
My Calculus Professor is awful and I don’t know what to do,"My calculus professor often gets very aggravated when he is asked questions in general, especially so when he is asked about examples he is working out on the board. His tests often are poorly worded or have material when never covered in class. We just had our first test and the highest grade was a 70. 

I know I’m going to fail this course but is there any way I can report my professor or inform anyone of this? I really don’t want to retake this course and mess up my GPA because my teacher sucks.",6,1,1.9884111143593435,college
My professor wants us to come in for extra class days...,"So basically I’m in a major that requires an “Introduction” to my major class. It’s a 1 credit class that meets 2 times a week, for half of the semester. Tomorrow is the last day of class as specified on the course schedule. 

My professor is also my advisor, and today I stopped him in the hallway to ask what we were doing on the last day of class (we were supposed to get a final for the class...and he cancelled lecture yesterday so I really didn’t know what to expect) and he didn’t even know it was the last day. I’m how he found out! 

So he says we might have a few “extra” days?? I happen to have no other obligations during the class time once this ends ends, but I commute an hour each way and this is my only class of the day. Therefore, if he makes us attend another week or more of class, it’s an incredible inconvenience and expense (lots of gas money) because of his poor time management. 

I’m waiting for tomorrow in class to confirm this is true before I go to the department head because I think this is very unfair. Not only to me but the other students as well. I just want to know is this a thing? Are they “allowed” to do this?? 

I just don’t want to contact the department head unless it’s completely necessary.  

Sorry this is long but thank you if you took the time to read it.

UPDATE: He just emailed us and said that we will have one extra day next week. Still feel like this is unfair. Had he not cancelled class this past Monday, we’d be finishing today.",11,3,1.994128706951936,college
Need ideas for a group project videooo!!!!,Okay so I have a group video project due on the 31st for my environmental science class and it has to be on climate change. I am looking for ideas that are simple and financially friendly since we don’t have a lot of money to buy props.,3,1,1.9997884291741583,college
"If I have an associates degree in nursing, will it still be four years for a bachelors, or two years?","I’ve been getting mixed answers on this topic, but just as the title said— I want to go to a community college for as much as possible to save money, but I learned that the max you can do for nursing is an associate’s. So if I take associates, will I be able to use that to reduce my years of study in a university? And what’s the difference between the two? 

Thank you :)",5,2,2.0038972254704546,college
[Public health] Should I change my major?," 

I am currently in my junior year of college to get my B.S. in public health, emphasis in administration. I'm reading a lot of stories of people on here not liking their careers after the degree and I'm also worried I will not like it either because of the amount of involvement of dealing with people. I'm pretty introverted but I love the aspect of being able to help people yet with being in administration, still staying behind the scenes. However, in the assistant job I am in now, I am realizing how much I will be having to deal with other people within the health care industry which often times could be worse than dealing with patients, in my mind? I'm also really worried about finding a job/having decent pay in the public health field... is it really as bad as some people make it seem?

I'm not gifted in the STEM department unfortunately because I feel that I would also love the lab type side of things, etc and helping people that way but being more hands on with the science aspect rather than patients/employees and managing. However, I'm not good at complex math and don't enjoy it in the least.

However, I did enjoy economics particularly and found that even though it used math, being able to apply it to real life made it more enjoyable/easier for me. But with economics, I don't want to just find myself stuck in financing as I think that would be very boring and I feel that that is where I would end up.

Should I stick with my major and just possibly pursue the more data analytic side of it rather than management? What would you guys suggest with those who have more experience in the field of public health?",1,3,2.0210615773223064,college
Worst Test Stories Please,So I'm a junior I haven't not gotten an A on a test since my first semester freshman year. I had my first exam for a finance class today and I know I did terrible. I'm waiting for the score but I just know it was bad I've never felt worse after an exam. I was so lost the whole exam and ugh I feel terrible. It's worth 25% of our grade. Does anyone have stories of doing bad on a first exam and still doing okay in the class to make me feel less anxious? I've felt terrible all day,9,14,2.0251356513963805,college
Fun/interesting classes?,"I'm a sophomore majoring in Biology, and I'm in a position where I'll need to take some electives almost every semester from here on out to be considered full-time (I started college with 28 credits from AP exams). I'm toying with the idea of adding a minor (most likely Music), but I'm not sure if I want to do that or not. What classes have you all taken that you've enjoyed?",7,2,2.027462040285269,college
Foreign language,Does anyone know a college that doesn’t require a foreign language,3,2,2.027901855100084,college
When am I graduating?,"I go a community college, and before classes started the lady I met with said I'll graduate this school year (transferred with a bunch of credits from high school) but I just looked and it looks like I'm graduating in 3 semesters? 

I want to graduate this year to go onto university, but idk if I'll be allowed to.",7,2,2.0518949106556397,college
Anyone here do animal related studies?,Just interested in what people are doing,5,1,2.055853243988973,college
Online Education Program,"I’m looking into getting my bachelor's in something education-related. I’m currently a pre-vet student but can’t find a good online bio or animal sciences program.

I’ve found a way to take all the pre-requisites online but want to also continue with my bachelor's. I was wondering if there are any good online schools that offer bachelors in things like education, for teaching? Thinking about becoming a Vet/Teacher thing, still trying to figure that part out lol.

Thanks for the help! Let me know if I need to clarify.",2,1,2.0601125032482326,college
"Joined a bunch of clubs, still feel like an outsider.","So I'm now a member of about four clubs at my college, but I still feel awkward and that I don't completely fit in.  How can I better connect with people in different clubs and feel more part of the group?",2,2,2.0801356513963802,college
Just got kicked out of the house in the middle of the semester,"Just got kicked out of the house for religious conflict and I’ve been missing out on homework due to other factors so I’m like a chapter behind in calculus 1, few chapters behind chemistry which are my most important classes right now. Chemistry isn’t that much of a big deal but calculus is different. My test is tomorrow and I’m probably going to drop it because even though i have a 103.5 in that class right now, 3 tests and a final are the only grades in that class so 1 F breaks you ESPECIALLY if you need A’s. So the nearest apartments near the campus are like $900-1000 per month so I’d need to work like 40 hours per week assuming I’m working on minimum wage but the cheapest apartments are 30 minutes away(driving distance) and they are around $500-600 but I don’t even have a car AND i don’t even have a job. I literally don’t know what to do and I’m so stressed out. What do you do in this case?",1,2,2.0804365773223066,college
"My work ethic is horrible, any tips?",Throughout HS i always had a terrible work ethic and I procrastinated every assignment. I still got A’s and B’s every year in all of my courses still because I found everything to be quite easy in HS. Now I am a freshman in college and my work ethic and procrastination are haunting me. Currently I have between 60% and 70% in all of my courses yet I can’t get myself to study or put max effort into assignments. I get distracted way to easily and leave everything to the night of. I wish I wasn’t like this but I just cant get myself to focus on my school work. I wonder if there is something wrong with me or that years of a poor work ethic and procrastination in school has left me with a habit that I cannot seem to break.,4,3,2.1096379662111953,college
ALWAYS BUSY... seeking advice," 

To all who are busy, 

I’m a \~quarter system\~ college student- 10 week terms- studying biomedical engineering. 

Right now, I’m in my second year of BioMed but third year of school— previously a Physics (1 term) and then Graphic design (2 terms) student. It’s been a bit of a rollercoaster. 

On top of school (17.5 credits currently— couldn’t cut down) I also work a part time job (need to pay for groceries Ubers, hobbies, going out etc….) I still make sure to have fun with my friends when I can. I go out on the weekends for drinks/parties/charli xcx listening parties. Also, I am in a relationship (1+ year strong , goes to nearby school in city. A subway ride away) 

Recently, I am feeling pretty burnt out. I just need advice on how to cope. My grades could be better but I am managing. Though, I would like to put some more time into my homework rather than do it to just get it done. 

Also, it might be relevant to mention that I also have had severe depressive episodes from being burnt out. I go to therapy nearly every week and have been since right before starting college. My fear is that being/feeling burnt out will cause a depressive episode. I am noticing the slipping.  

For fellow queer astrology freaks: I’m a WOMANNNNN. Sagittarius sun xo, Leo rising, Capricorn moon (vomittttt! Y’all are probably like: THIS explains everything), and for added fun, since my gf likes to roast me: Mars in Libra x Capricorn Venus (the mystery of it all) 

Now background information considered, my question is what can I do to not feel so burnt out? How do you time manage? Yesterday morning after my lover went home, I slept from 4:30pm-7:00am. I feel stretched thin— not enough time to get it all done. But somehow I do it. I want to use my time effectively, not feel the need to nap everyday. Not accidentally sleep through the dinner I was supposed to have with my friends because work or school gets in the way (meatless Monday happened last night during my slumber bender). I am finding the time to type this just before work… going to leave after I post it. 

What are your time managing tips? What are your study tips? How do I make more time for me? My passions?",0,1,2.112867132877862,college
Shaking off a clingy new friend?,"I made friends with this girl in the first week of my course. We have a lot in common and got on very well initially. We both commute into school and she lives on my route so we decided to carpool, with me driving. It’s now week 5 and she has become incredibly clingy and I cannot stand it. Our course is very full on and structured and we have every class together and she will not leave my side all day. It’s stopping me from making other good friends because she is just always there whenever I am talking to someone. She doesn’t even join in conversations I have with other people, she literally told me the other day that she doesn’t want to make any other friends. I think it’s probably because she is incredibly judegmental and thinks she is better than everyone around her. 

I am very introverted and like my own company so I am finding it incredibly difficult to put up with someone following me around all day. She’s also generally quite a negative person which I find hard to deal with all the time because I am generally a positive, happy person and I feel like she is trying to drag me down. I hate sitting next to her in tutorials because she is so critical of every tiny detail of my work. I don’t know what to do though because we carpool and have every class together so it is very difficult to get any space from her. If I go and sit away from her she will just follow me, believe me I have tried.  I can only get away from her at lunch if I make up a really good excuse, otherwise she just follows me wherever I go.

Has anyone else been through a similar thing and can offer any advice. I am losing my mind!!!",3,1,2.113492132877862,college
Have you guys ever failed a test or gotten a C in a class?,"I'm getting so tired. I was hoping for a 3.7 GPA before I transfer but I don't think I can handle the stress. Last week I had As in all my classes and now I'm doing bare minimum at this point. I think I'm gonna give up on my other honor society too. All my homework is late and I'm falling in depression I've never felt before. If you have ever gotten a bad grade in a class, how did you emotionally recover? I feel like I'm gonna lose it all this semester.",2,0,2.1151356513963804,college
Should I join Epsilon Pi Tau?,"I recently got an invite from my college's Dean to join Epsilon Pi Tau, an honor society for technology students. I already have 4 years in the field. It's $77 for the first year, and $44 every other year.

Is it worth it?",1,1,2.119753706951936,college
I’m frustrated with a certain professor. He wants to meet about an “issue” but I don’t see an issue at all.,"Hello,

I’m a senior currently jamming 18 credits into my semester in order to graduate in time.

Important context:
Last year, I took a general Asian history course to fulfill a diversity requirement to graduate. I ended up failing the course (the only course I’ve ever failed in my whole life). I took the F and moved on without any conflict. I would take a different diversity course or retake this one later.

This semester, I signed up for a course about the history of Japanese Film. Not to fulfill any requirements, but only because I needed an elective to fill my schedule and this class was at the days/times I needed to fill. I didn’t realize until day one that it is taught by the same professor that failed me before.

That was no issue to me. He doesn’t remember me. So far I’ve been doing well in this class and even enjoying it.

Today, I received an email from my professor stating that he needs to meet with me because he realizes I took his other history class. He says we need to meet but there is no hurry to do so.

I replied saying

“Hello. Yes, I took your Asian history course in 2018 but did not receive a high enough grade to receive those credits. I hope this isn’t any interference. I am taking this course as an elective and not to fulfill a graduation requirement. Hope that is not an issue. If you still need to meet, what are your office hours?”

He promptly replied to look at my syllabus for his hours and to meet as soon as possible. Because his first email says there is no hurry, now he says to meet as soon as possible, I feel like I have angered him with my reply.

I see NO issue here. It is a completely different class than the one I failed. I do not need it to replace my old grade.

I honestly don’t feel too comfortable to meet with him. What should I do?

Update: His issue is he thinks I’m trying to be sneaky by taking his class again (although it’s a separate class all together) and thinks I’m trying to replace my F with whatever grade I earn in this class. I replied to him with this:

“I will be available to stop by your office on Monday at 12:00 noon. If needed I will bring a printed copy of my degree audit transcript as reference and to demonstrate my understanding that HIST 211 will not substitute the grade I received in HIST 201. Please let me know if I should meet with my program advisor prior to our meeting for any additional information that could be beneficial.

Thank you,
My name”",18,28,2.1209111143593433,college
Need Help With Scholarship Advice (Chancelor's List Question).,"Took a path less traveled and struggled through an Associate's degree in Engineering Design. Worked four years and realized my earning potential was going to be limited without a BS in Engineering and PE cert within this industry.

Fast forward today and I have a new appreciation of school. I will be done with my bachelor's next year, and have maintained a 4.0 GPA taking a full time course load and working full time. I have also been placed on the ""Chancelor's List"" every semester.

My dream is to continue on to Law School (dream is to be an attorney), but I cannot afford the tuition, and im terrified of the student loans.

Can people who have won or have experience with substantial scholarships lend me advice? I want this more than anything, and I know I will succeed, I just need to figure out how to make this happen.

Thank you",0,1,2.123978243988973,college
Is it true if you’re not sure about going to law school you shouldn’t go?,I heard some lawyer who has a YouTube channel say if you’re not dead sure about going to law school then you should absolutely not go as it’s not for you and it’s brutal. Is this accurate?,12,9,2.138434262507492,college
Withdrawing,"So I think I’m going to have to withdraw depending on how I do with my midterm, does anyone know how that would affect my financial aid? Would I have to pay back $ for just that specific class? Or maybe nothing at all? Any help would be appreciated I don’t have any time to currently go to my schools financial office since it’s always packed but again any insight would be appreciated",7,1,2.1448462995445285,college
Computer science? Software engineer ?,What if I wanted to study something with code. Like let’s say computer science or a software engineer. What classes do I need to take? What are the requirement? I probably need a background with some sort of computer science but what about maths?,3,1,2.1505638921371215,college
Leave of Absence?,"The situation I'm currently in is pretty complicated, so I'll try to trim some unnecessary details. Here it goes:

&#x200B;

I'm a CC transfer student. Five months ago, which was the start of the summer before my transfer, I started questioning whether I wanted to keep going to school or if I wanted to take a one year break. I'm pretty driven, reasonably smart, and I'm up for a challenge, but I just wasn't feeling passionate. I did \*the most\* while I was at CC, and adding all of the work  it takes to properly execute the transfer process compounded the load, so I think I  was feeling burnt out. But I realized I wasn't happy because I was committed to transferring to UCLA, a school I didn't really want to attend. So I switched my registration to a school at which I thought I'd be happier and thus more successful in my higher education endeavors, but alas...

I was pretty excited once I switched and committed to the new school. But with the first week, I was feeling weird...almost unsettled. As if I made the wrong decision -- not that I should have gone to UCLA, but that I should have taken a break before my junior year. I prayed about it, but ultimately brushed it off. Then, DAYS before the deadline to pay for Fall Quarter, I found out I was disqualified from receiving a Cal Grant. Disqualified! The California Aid Commission didn't even notify me, I had to find out for myself. After a very complicated and stressful week of back and forth calls/emails between various institutions, it comes down to me having to unexpectedly take out a loan and shell out a ton of money I wasn't prepared to spend. I wasn't able to pay by the deadline, so I got dropped from all my classes. However, it's a soft drop, and as long as I can pay by this Wednesday I should be able to get everything back on track. I can file an appeal with the Aid commission (the reason why I got disqualified wasn't my fault), but appeals take about eight weeks and this one likely won't win me anything.

As I was trying to solve this problem, I kept encountering roadblock after roadblock. I'd pray ""if this means I shouldn't go to school, then give me a firm sign. but this situation seems fight able, so I'm going to keep fighting and trying to stay in school despite this huge an unexpected financial burden."" and then I'd confront an obstacle. As I've gone through this whole thing, it's basically made me second guess everything. It was so stressful and upsetting, and now I'm just burnt out and my feelings about this school year are definitely the opposite of excited. Maybe I should have listened to my feeling from months ago about wanting a break?  I'm tempted to do a complete withdraw and apply to the state school by mom's house, so I could live at home (not pay rent), take a break (because I wouldn't be able to attend until next fall), and just start fresh (I'd likely have my Cal Grant back, so tuition would be taken care of). I didn't mention this before, but I'm commuting to school about 40 minutes because I have a great part-time job and lots of good friends where I live. So I pay rent, an the drive + rent are both a burden. The state school is only 15 from my mom's house, and since I consider myself pretty driven, I know I could make it a good experience and forge some opportunity.  I'd also be near my current community, so I'd be able to maintain that and my job. At this point, I'm feeling so deflated and unmotivated that I could probably survive and get my degree at my current school, but I don't think I'd be able to do much else.

I thought about living closer to my current school, but it's not worth it to leave my community because I'm very relationship oriented.  I thought about the fact that if I switched to the state school, I'd be delaying my graduation. At this point, I'm kinda okay with that. I'm just conflicted, because part of me says I should just stick this out at my current school. I'm given this whole decision a couple weeks, but I'd appreciate some advice. 

What do y'all think?",0,1,2.1570106513963805,college
What are some good reasons to transfer schools?,"So far my college experience has been pretty miserable. I know that it takes a while to form friendships, but I don't click with many people here. I love the location my school is at, but even the best moments of the last few weeks have meant little to me. 

There's nobody I feel that I can talk to about my problems, or anything thats bothering me. The only happy moments I've truely had here are talking to my high school friends on Discord. 

I have a school that I want to transfer to, and honestly I regret not going there. Its closer to home, has a better major program, etc. I guess my question is: am I being melodramatic and should I just wait this out, or should I try to transfer?",7,10,2.1619759291741585,college
How do I tell my dad full time college might not be for me?,"All my life, school has always been a challenge and in high school I barley graduated with my class. I was already unsure about college but I registered because it seemed like that’s what my family expected me to do. This is my second semester and I always feel like I’m drowning. I don’t even work and I’m still overwhelmed. What I want to do is work spring - summer to save up my own money and in the fall, do flex classes ( flex is when one semester is 8 weeks instead of 16. the max number of classes you take is two ) and keep doing flex until I decide what I was to do in life. I just don’t want to keep wasting my hazel wood hours on classes I’ll fail because I can’t keep up and I don’t want to keep asking my dad to pay for my books. If I save up money I won’t have to ask. It sound good to me and I know I’ll be a lot happier doing that but my dad wants me to keep being full time and work at the same time. How can I explain this to him without him being disappointed in me?",1,3,2.180795373618603,college
Online College vs Going on Campus,"So I’m currently in my 4th year at a smaller in state school (around 15,000 undergrad enrollment) and Im about a year behind, which I know happens to a good amount of people. I’ve been entertaining the idea of transferring/switching to an online school to finish my degree in Marketing. I’ve become fed up with school and I’m starting to miss a good bit of my classes, I’m just ready to be done and graduate. Does anyone have any experience with online schooling and could offer me some advice? Do you find it tougher than being on campus taking classes? Thanks in advance, open to any suggestions.",6,5,2.189464355100084,college
I need tips on improving my work ethics,"I am a freshman in college this year in my first semester. I'm doing okay in my classes right now and I'm doing an alright job studying for my exams. However, I've recently just got a part-time job and I haven't started working there yet but it seems like I'll be working around 19 hrs a week.

My question is how should I prepare and balance both academics, extracurricular activities, and my part time job?

On a side note, I also struggle with working in general. At other part time jobs I've had, I seemed to have always dreaded working there. How do I overcome this feeling of absolutely misery working?

Thanks in advance :)",4,2,2.204927318063047,college
"Should I be worried that my roommate stays in bed till 12:00, 1:00, and even 2:00?",,15,0,2.2067675958408253,college
How do I catch up on so much missed work?,"This is my first semester and I made the mistake of taking 3 MWF classes in a row. I have a small number of health issues that make me tired all the time and I can’t do anything in the afternoons after these days. I also get migraines and they’re being triggered by the lights in my math class. 

I’m in frequent contact with disability services and I can get extensions sometimes but that just makes my work pile up even more 

Now I’m like 3 weeks behind in 2 of my classes and I’m real worried about how I’m gonna catch up. I can’t over exert myself and work too late or I’m gonna get sick. What should I do?",1,1,2.2093601884334175,college
How far is too far to commute?,I live about an hour way from my university (60 miles). Is that too far? I’ve been considering living off campus because I wouldn’t have to pay for a meal plan or housing. My only concern is winter. Our winters are pretty nasty up here.,4,1,2.2097652810260104,college
Studying Abroad Full Time,"Is anyone studying abroad full time? As in not for a semester or a year. 

I have about 2 1/2 years to finish my degree. I recently got accepted to a school abroad and decided I’ll be going there. 

My French isn’t bad and I can understand pretty well? Do any of you have any tips on living in France?",4,6,2.2466865773223064,college
Transfer Question (Ontario),"2nd year student here with a low GPA. If im trying to transfer to a different university for a completely different program, would universities look at my high school marks or university GPA? Thanks",5,2,2.261918058803788,college
Why do some college clubs never send an email?,"I've signed up for around 6 clubs so far (overkill, I know) during my school's club day, but only 2 of them have gotten back to me. For those two, one of them I typed in and the other I hand wrote. All of the others I hand wrote. My email is very long which I had to write over and over yet I get no emails. My handwriting is good enough, I make ever letter readable. Did the club maybe not start? Is this a problem that happens to other people?",5,2,2.263503706951936,college
Advice strongly needed on how to study for Botany,"my professor is literally the craziest. The amount of knowledge she expects us to know is ridiculous. I got a 70% on an exam I studied for four days for. I’m at high risk of not being able to get an A in the class. I’ve had her before and I thought that would be an advantage but it’s definitely not.  Her exams are very difficult...like I expected to do so well on that exam and then she ripped it away from me. What can I do? I make flash cards and study them..I read the book and take notes. I take great notes in lecture. And I answer the questions in the back of the book. 

I am so done with this class I have a 74% right now and I want to cry. Please help.",3,2,2.2718601884334175,college
I'm a senior in highschool and joining the military. I'm wondering if any mechanical engineer majors can help me out.,"Joining the military next year for several reasons. I want to learn some skills before going into college and I also need the GI Bill for college. I already signed my contract and I got the mechanical job that I wanted, which is small arms/towed artillery repairer. 

I want to major in mechanical engineering once I do my time and go to college. Is this a good start for learning/getting ready for mechanical engineering. Thanks for reading.",7,12,2.2749620402852693,college
Should I become an engineer? (bad in HS),"Some quick backlight, I'm now mid 20s, in high school I did not do good/take it serious, I passed with D's / C's and hundreds of absences/tardies.

I see the importance of education now, 7-8 years down the line, and want to go to school to become an Engineer.

However this is where my fear/question kicks in, is Engineering possible for someone like me who did not excel in high school? Or is Engineering for the Bs/As crowd? - My work ethic and look toward school have changed drastically over the years, I don't think I would do nearly as poor as I did in HS as I just didn't care.

Also, I never took Trig/Precalc/Calc1 or Physics in HS, my math level is Algebra? (I plan, if I go to learn Trig/Precalc before starting the cirriculum as I know it all builds off eachother)",7,2,2.277056947692677,college
Ordering food (international student),I am in the library and am very hungry. There is a cafeteria downstairs but the worst thing is that I can’t order food. For 10 months now I haven’t been able to speak with people apart from people with my accent on the phone. I haven’t been able to order food cause I think my accent is bad. What should I do,23,56,2.287172688433418,college
What are the best Colleges/Universities for getting a degree for a job involving technology in Florida?,Are FAMU and UNF good ones?,3,1,2.300031484729714,college
Students who’ve studied abroad - what was your experience like?,"I’ve gotten the chance to study abroad in Austria for my last semester (Spring 2020). It’s close to finalization. I’m really excited but also nervous as all hell. 

For those of you who’ve studied abroad, what was your experience like and how did you cope with the first 2-3 weeks?",8,15,2.3010500032482324,college
What do you even do after you graduate?,"I’m a senior and I graduate in May and I don’t even know where to begin looking for a job. I haven’t done any extra curriculars, internships, or community service because I’ve been working full time for Geek Squad at Best Buy. It’s been a great job but I’m not sure how much it will help me when I start applying for “real” jobs. Where do you even start? I’ve been studying public policy and am highly interested in the field. Graduate school is out of the question at the moment.",5,6,2.3015939847297138,college
How did you guys get your first internship?,I’m struggling to get one but most people I know have easily got one. How did you guys get yours? My major is in Statistics.,12,4,2.302867132877862,college
Anyone know how to speed read? Any tips,"So I goofed up when I started to feel super depressed. I have an exam today at 630. It wouldn't be so bad, but I have to answer 160 study questions over 100 ish pages. I read a little slow sometimes and I also have class until 3",1,3,2.3829944476926768,college
I'm starting to think college is not for me.,"I'm having a hard time at uni right now (i'm a freshman in my first sem). Although the course itself is very hard, i believe i could pass with enough effort. But....I can't seem to give the effort that college requires me to. I've never been the student to study so much. That's how i've been ever since. I'm in love with learning but i dont like cramping up all the learning in such a short period of time. I take up a lot of rest times in between and thats the best way for me to learn. I'm on my way into failing 4/6 of my current subjects (3 of those are majors and the other one is math). All of those are very little points away from passing and i could have gotten a more satisfactory grade other than passing if i just reviewed well. But i cant seem to push myself to review more. I really cant. I've been trying for months but i'm still struggling to push myself to review. I'm generally disciplined in a lot of areas in my life, but i cant seem to be one in this area. Any advice?",32,8,2.395806947692677,college
College and bunions?,"I've just started college, and I despite my young age, I have quite advanced bunions. They weren't too painful before it, but the daily long walkes on the campus makes them sore. I've been thinking about surgery for a while, probably that wil be the final solution. I'm wearing quite comfrotable and wide shoes, sometimes even a size bigger, but it doesn't seem to help now. Is there anyone having similar issues with bad feet? How do you cope with the pain? Is there anyone had surgery during college? I'm just afraid of the time I would miss, as I would be in a cast in case.",2,2,2.3975199106556397,college
Should I Stay or Should I Go - it's not just a good song; it's also my dilemma (transferring?),"I'm a first year university student in Canada. I decided to stay in my home city for school to save some money, but I hate it here. I never wanted to go to this university in the first place, and I started the year knowing that my program isn't perfect for me, but I figured I'd make it work. Turns out that my major just isn't for me at all, but there's only one program at my current school that I could switch into that better suits my interests (still nowhere near perfect though), and I would have to wait until next fall to switch. So, in the meantime, I would spend the next year taking a whole bunch of courses that I really don't like/have any interest in, and might not do as well in as a result.

My parents know that I want to switch programs and that I'm not happy with my school, and they encouraged me to look into other programs at my school, but also into programs at other schools out of town. Well, I found the PERFECT program, at a school I've always had a lot of interest in. I've spoken to a bunch of students in the program, and I know a few people at the school, and it just feels like the right choice. Plus, I could transfer right away, and start in January 2020, and with careful maneuvering of courses, still graduate on time! However, there are a few issues: 1) it's out of town, which means it'll be expensive and I'll have to get a part-time job during the school year (which is fine, I'll just have to manage my time really well), and 2) it's halfway across the country (2 hr flight, or 17 hr drive), so I'd be pretty far from family and friends back home (but it would also be a really cool experience, and I know I'd really thrive on my own). Looking into this program made me realize how much I'm missing out on/how unhappy I am at my current school, and seeing that things could be better and that I could have a fun four years... I've only been at my current school a couple of months, and I forgot that university's supposed to be fun, too, not *just* academics.

I feel really conflicted. My parents only have enough money saved up for my education to cover 4 years of undergrad in town (or 2-3 years out of town), but if I work two jobs in the summer and one part-time during the school year, I would be able to cover the cost of an undergrad out of town, but I would have little to no money saved up by the end of it. I'm planning to go to medical school after my degree, which I know will put me in debt, and it would be nice to minimize that debt. But I can't get this program out of my head, and I don't want to settle for something that will make me unhappy. I feel like I'm letting my parents down by going far from home, and by spending so much money. I originally wanted to go out of town for university, and accepted an offer even further away, but they made me feel pretty guilty about it, so I ended up accepting my offer at the university in town instead. Plus, my older sister stayed in town for university even though she hates her school (but she loves her program), and she's graduating this year with quite a bit of money.

I don't know if I should just stay at my school and switch programs next fall, or switch to the other university. I just want to be happy and have a good 4 years studying something I'm interested in. Am I letting my parents down? Am I letting myself down? What would you do if you were in my shoes?",3,5,2.4159111143593437,college
Schedule app,"Hi everyone,

I really suck at managing my time. Hence I thought of something that might exist but that I can't find. I am looking for an app/software in which you could enter your fix activities (lessons, extra-scholar activities,...) and then enter what you have to do (homework,...) and the approximate time the task would take, so it can fit in places where you have available time.

Does that even exist?

Thank you!",12,9,2.4444990773223063,college
I have a problem sosializing,"I don't know why but every time I am alone with someone I can't find a conversation topic.

Im a freshman and I didn't knew anyone until I started. 

Now I have some ""friends"" here but I don't feel like I have any. 

I'm just socialy awkward and people don't find me funny until I know them for years. 

But there are a lot of people that even when they first met someone here they still have a lot of topics to talk about and now they are good friends. Why I can't have that, I feel I don't have any charm or anything. 

The friend groups have been settled by now and the group where I am is full of kind people, but I feel that I'm not a member, like sometimes they don't even notice that I'm there, or they allways ""forget"" about me. 

They don't rely on me. What I'm doing wrong? I'm trying to be friendly, I help them with anything I can, I allways search for them but they don't search for me, I allways invite them to go somewhere, but they 
don't invite me to anything. 

We have a party this thursday where we have to bring our alcohol with us, they were talking about which alcohol buy and with witch people and in a group of 6 people they decided to buy the bottles between 2 (whiskey) and 3 (Gin) and no one thought about me. 

I feel alone even when they are with me, when I try to get in a conversation where every one is speaking, they don't care about my thoughts or anything that I say. 

I just don't know what to do 

I also have been with another group of friends and the same happened. I think that I am the problem and I don't know what I'm doing wrong.

Any suggestion?",24,25,2.46908241065564,college
What's the craziest thing you've done to survive the exam season?,,3,2,2.5076356513963804,college
Finding the right course?,I recently started college and I'm studying Bachelor's of Business Administration. However I wish to finish my 1st year and start BA English instead as a BBA degree is not working out for me. I find the lectures boring albeit being easy for me . My true interest lies in English.  I'm worried that if I start doing a BA in English next year it just means I've wasted a whole year going no where with my current major . So starting English next year would just mean starting from scratch and all my friends would be in the second year of their respective majors. However if I stick to my current major BBA I would be finishing one year and starting on my second year . BBA degree is also much more valued compared to a simple BA in English degree. Any advice ?,2,2,2.521293058803788,college
Shaving pubes in dorms,Haven’t shaved my balls in a while. Where the fuck can I do that? Kinda sus about just doing it in a communal bathroom/shower,7,7,2.54164028102601,college
Online courses,Hi what websites are good for online courses to get a verified certificate and do they help during college placement,0,3,2.5608532439889733,college
Trouble motivating myself to do work,"Hi r/college!

So ever since I started college last year, I’ve had serious trouble finding the motivation to do anything relatively school-related. Studying, homework, you name it, I procrastinate on it until the last possible second, sometimes not doing it at all. And the worst part is, I don’t really care about it all- lost two points on that assignment? No big deal. A C on your test? Don’t sweat it. 

I’m honestly at a lost right now for what I can do to get myself motivated again. It’s not that I’m stupid or incapable or anything- in high school I excelled and graduated at the top of my class, with my motivation throughout high school being what distinguished me from other students. But after being on that side of things, working hard and getting a bunch of accolades for my work that, in the end, basically amounted (to what I think) is nothing, getting me to the same place that I would’ve ended up if I just merely existed instead of working as hard as I did, I really don’t see a point to work as hard as I did anymore. Sure it bothers me that I have a B in [insert class here], but not enough for me to want to really do anything. 

So any advice for this Sophomore who obviously needs help? Anyone else found themselves in a similar situation? How do I save myself from drowning?

TIA!",1,5,2.6023115773223062,college
Does your college GPA actually matter?,,28,17,2.6941634291741585,college
Degree: Online vs On-campus,"Hey guys I just had a question. Do any of you know what the credibility/recognition of an online Bachelor’s degree. I’m looking to do a BA in Philosophy and considering my location and the fact that I’m working it seems to be the best option.
However, I do want to go on to get my PhD and become a professor and was wondering if my online degree may be discriminated against one earned on campus?",0,1,2.714614818063047,college
Do any colleges (preferably online) offer ONE credit hour classes? I only need ONE!!,"I got a LOT of my Gen Ed requirements in high school but it just so happened to work out that I am ONE credit hour short in science, specifically I need a  natural science - and college bio is a prerequisite for any of the cool ones!! I REALLY don’t want to have to take biology again when I’m only one hour short 😩

Are there any online classes for college credit of just ONE hour?? My school is pretty flexible so throw any spaghetti you got onto this wall, I might just be able to make it stick!",6,0,2.756929632877862,college
"Bigger, stylish, simple backpack suggestions?","Looking for a new backpack because my current Herschel Settlement (22L) isn’t big enough and feels cramped a lot of the days. Even more so on days with a night class. I haven’t been getting a lot of replies asking this on fashion and backpack related subreddits. 

I want the new backpack to be stylish, lightweight, and simple. After reading some Reddit threads on backpack suggestions I checked out Timbuk2 and their bigger (>22L) backpacks have way too many compartments. I’m not a biker or anything so I doubt I will need that many compartments. A front compartment and a main compartment is all I need, tbh.

I was looking at the Herschel Little America but it’s like **the** #1 most common backpack on my campus. I’m not sure if I like the lid and drawstring design and it seems too expensive for what it is. Seriously, a 3L difference from my current backpack and it’s almost $100 more. I was also looking at the Fjällräven Kanken Big, since the regular Kanken backpacks seem way too small (16L). However the Kanken backpack’s design is a little feminine for guys, and the big version is an Urban Outfitters exclusive. It shows as not available for pickup in-store so I gotta pay the $10 shipping if I want it. 

While I was looking at the Fjällräven Kanken Big, I came across another backpack of theirs called the Vardag 25. It seems to have a simplistic vintage design and is inexpensive at $85 for 25L. I might go to Hudson’s Bay tomorrow and buy this. However my mom said it looks cheap 🤷‍♂️ and the backpack is only 5 months since release and doesn’t have any reviews on it. 

Do you guys have a good backpack suggestion for my criteria? The most common backpack brands on campus seem to be Herschel, Fjällräven, High Sierra, Swiss Gear, Dakine, Jansport, etc. I saw that MEC seems to sell a lot of cool backpacks, like the ones by Topo Designs. Not sure if their $5 co-op membership is worth it. Any good places to buy the suggested backpack? I don’t mind online.",3,4,2.7627976884334173,college
Loving my art class!,"I’m currently a freshman at Georgia Southern studying exercise science. When I enrolled I saw that I had to either take a music, art, or theater class. At the time I really didn’t want to have any of those. However, as time has gone on somehow my Art in Life class is my favorite one. I’ve never been the artistic type but I truly love this class. Both my parents went to SCAD so they love the fact that I’m in the class.  Just thought I’d share my thoughts! Anyone else have any classes you didn’t expect to actually like?",3,8,2.772739818063047,college
"So ummm, is a “gap year” still a thing?","This is just something that’s been on my mind lately. I’m a 2nd year student at a university in the US but technically only have around 3 more semesters once I finish up this one (I earned some hours in high school). I’m an accounting major and while I love it and am actually pretty excited for it to be my future profession, I can’t help but think that once I get this degree it’s just going to be me working for 30years+. Time is just moving pretty fast and I’m still only 19. 

I got a taste of traveling when I went to Europe for 2 weeks this past summer (Italy, Poland, France, and Spain) and I absolutely loved it and want to travel even more, which is ultimately how the thought of a gap year popped into my head. I just want to know what kind of things do people chose to do in a gap year, what are some reasons (for those who want to share), and how do you make it work? Thank you :)",6,2,2.7748347254704546,college
Should I be looking for work or actually working in my last year of college?,"Hey guys, I know we all come from different majors and have had different experiences in college. For me, I got a lot of society, club, competition experience and I’ve interned once, about a year ago. My biggest weakness are my technical skills in the design industry. I decided to stop all volunteering activities in my last year of college to focus on skills that will make me more employable. But is this a mistake? Most people I know hustle it out in the last year. I don’t know whether I should be finding work or actually working (in my relevant field)? Like everyone else, I’d like to graduate with a job offer.

If anyone’s got a year left of college, where are you at and how are you tackling it? What’s your career plan? What are you doing?",2,1,2.7832027810260103,college
French Classes,Im a 18M first year who’s taking intermediate French right now. My professor had just given me a C on my essay because there were a few grammar mistakes in it. She wrote the word « unacceptable » on it to add insult to injury. My AP French teacher was nowhere near this insane. Is this normal for college french or is my class just hard?,1,1,2.7891865773223063,college
How to Get Better at Writing Papers?,"I recently had a five-page paper for a course that took me days to write. I could never focus. I ended up having to ask the professor for an extension before I ultimately turned it in three days after the deadline. Moving forward, I want to get better at this. I've seemingly never been able to sit down and just write. I always develop writer's block and leave the paper for breaks, which takes me such a long time. I've always struggled with procrastination writing and don't want to keep asking for deadlines and stressing the last minute. Anyone have any tips?",7,3,2.7978439847297136,college
"Professor gave everyone shitty midterm grades, what do we do??","I’m a dual enrollment student and I take economics at the local college. My professor just recently posted our midterm grades and so far all my friends that I have talked to have gotten a C or below. The reason why everyone’s grades went down was because he posted the daily hw assignments which “if they don’t follow MY correct structure, then they are a 0”. Yeah he said that and yeah they were DAILY. HOMEWORK. ASSINMENTS. and I FOLLOWED HIS STRUCTURE AS DID EVERYONE ELSE!!! didn’t change the fact that my grade went down three letter grades.
He doesn’t offer any extra credit or makeups. What should my friends and I do??",9,1,2.797855558803788,college
How do you make a proper schedule?,"Aside from going to class, how much time do you spend on a class per week? How do you organize it? I know a lot of people use a calendar but I feel like I’d forget to check it more often than not. Any tips on how to be organized and have a nicely flowing schedule?",3,2,2.799545373618603,college
Should I be passionate about finance like crazy about the stock market,"I mean I’m interested in the financial side of a company and seeing what to do so we don’t go under and how to have a successful year and all but I always think of finance like people who wake up everyday to check the stock market 

Or am I just tripping",8,1,2.8112351884334172,college
Transferring from a community college to a 4 year.,"I’m currently doing my applications and I’m a little confused on how applying works if I’m transferring. 

I’ve finished all of my GE and will probably have my AA for transfer for business administration. 

I just don’t really know what I should be putting down for my major and if I will still get in if I haven’t done the prerequisites for that major. If I haven’t does that just mean I will need to do them when I get to the actual 4 year?",3,1,2.818503706951936,college
Failed my midterm.,"I failed my midterm, and I was thinking should I drop the class. I can’t afford to allow my gpa to drop. Tomorrow is the withdrawal deadline. I’m a freshman in college and I’m currently doing 12 credits this semester I don’t want my financial aid to decrease and I barely get any already. I’m just so disappointed and I don’t know what to do. Also, I barely go to this class because I live 2 hours away and I don’t have my license yet. What should I do?",10,2,2.830818521766751,college
Professor gives butt load of homework but is only 10% of grade,"In my math class homework is on 10% of my final grade. The professor assigns 40 10 questions assignments. she gives us a month to do it but its still a lot since i have other classes that have homework. She knows its a lot of homework because she tells us ""guys if its a lot of homework just let me know."" I was thinking if you know its a lot of homework, why gives up that much in the first place. I was thinking do i really gotta do all the homework since its only like 10%. just to explain its not 40 assignments the whole semester is 40 assignments every month almost.",10,1,2.833040743988973,college
Does a GPA round up?,"My girlfriend is graduating in May and wants summa cum laude. For her university you need a 3.8 to get it. She currently has a 3.75 would that round up? Would she have to hit 3.8 exactly? It’s probably dependent on the college, but if anyone has any insight on if it rounds, I can’t seem to get a straight answer from google.",4,1,2.83757778102601,college
Should I take CALC II?,"I’m a freshman Biochem Major and currently in calc I. My major lists calc II as not required but “strongly recommended”. Here’s the thing I took calc AB and BC in high school and did pretty well, 4 on the exam B in the class. I have a good understanding of the basics of calc and I’m very strong with integrals and derivatives. Calc one has been super easy for me I find myself bored in lecture and basically use the time to do homework assignments on the material we haven’t even started yet in class. I hope to graduate a little Early, to save Money, maybe a semester early if I can and I would use the open space in my schedule to knock out the physics reqs. Another option is taking it at my CC during winter but I was hoping to work a lot over break. Any biochem students know if series/polar/parametric material is used in higher core classes?",1,1,2.8413162069519364,college
Freshmen here who just got caught with alch for the first time in the dorm,Got caught walking to a friend's dorm room with a can of mikes harder. Completely complied with the CA and wasn't a dick. I know I'm a dumb ass. Was wondering what is typically the punishment for this,9,6,2.878607873618603,college
My friend wants to visit my college campus. Will I get in trouble for showing her around?,"A good friend of mine is considering going to my college next year and asked if I could show her around. It's a small commuter campus so I don't think it will be a big deal. The plan is we will just walk around campus and she might sit it on one of my classes. Are there any problems with me doing this? Is there anything I need to do beforehand? 

Thanks in advance.",6,0,2.8846495402852694,college
Anyone going to/graduated from American Academy of Art in Chicago?,"Hi guys! I’m going to be applying to colleges some time in the near future and want to make sure I’m prepared. I’m very interested in AAoA as mentioned above, and I just wanna hear from anyone whose going/has gone to see if it’s what it’s cracked up to be. I’ve taken a tour, and am talking with some administrators. I’m thinking of majoring in photography and minoring in graphic design. Any help is appreciated!!!",0,1,2.8864898180630476,college
Taking 2 W’s vs failing a class,"Hi! I’m currently a Junior Computer Science Major going to college at Georgia College. 

My GPA thus far is about a 3.7 and I’ve consistently been getting A’s and B’s and have a pretty strong resumé. There’s only one problem and a single required class that’s been holding me back recently...Calculus 🙃 Last year I tried calculus and came close to failing, so I took a W in the class (dropped without penalty). Now, I’m attempting it again, and I’m pretty close to failing once again. So my question is, what would look worse on my transcript: Taking another W and theoretically doing well next semester or grinding the class and either failing or getting a D? Calculus is the only class I’ve dropped until now, so I’d have two W’s both in Calc if I dropped it again",5,3,2.8883416699148987,college
"International Students in College, please help",Are there any international students who applied for merit aid here because I qualify for a good amount merit aid at most of my colleges that I am choosing between but I don't know how to go about actually getting said aid. Do I have to fill out a FAFSA? etc.,0,0,2.8913509291741586,college
"Supposed to graduate this semester, but worried...","So I'm a computer science major who's two classes away from graduation. I just need to make a D in both these classes so that I can graduate and be done with college for good. One of these classes I believe I can make the D in, the other I'm highly uncertain. The assignments in this particular class are worth 30% of my grade (I can use Chegg to complete the assignments), the midterm is 30%, and the final is 40%. If I knew the questions that were on the midterm and final, I could find and memorize the answers, but I don't know the questions. I'm really desperate as I've been in college for 8 years. I'm considering offering the professor some money for a D grade, but I don't know how much. $300? $500? I can't go higher than $500 because I'm unemployed and need all the money I can save. Material from this class (Theory of Computation) will not be needed in any future career of mine, but it's a required course and so I have to take it and pass. Would the professor be understanding if I resorted to the above? I never had to do something like this before. But I was thinking I could put the money in a letter, go to office hours, mention I'm graduating and just need the minimum passing grade, and offer him the letter (""a letter from my parents"" I could say?). Has anyone tried this?",8,0,2.9259111143593435,college
Should I work day shift and attend night classes or swing shift and attend day classes?,"I went to trade school right after high school and completed an apprenticeship with the stationary engineers union. I took some time off to figure out what I really wanted after working for 6 years, and college is what I want. I am currently on my first semester back and totally love it. Taking 12 units, all A’s. 

I need to go back to work and make some money to pay for college without loans and save for a house. I’m currently deciding on whether to work day shift like I used to and attend college at night, or work swing shift and attend college during the day. I notice the availability of night classes isn’t the same as day classes. 

I am going to keep the course load at around 12 units per semester while working full time. 25m, no kids, no wife, no responsibilities besides what I want to do. What do you think sounds more reasonable, days or nights? Any experience from people who have been in a similar position is greatly appreciated!",9,1,2.931756021766751,college
"My roommate never leaves, what should I do?","My roommate is always in the room. He goes to class and that’s about it. Otherwise, he’s in the room playing video games, watching Netflix or something else. He never leaves to study or work on homework and eats every meal in the room. It’s very stressful have such little time to myself. Any advice?

Edit: I’m not asking for ways to kick him out, just advice on the situation. And I never had the option to pay more for a single, and probably won’t anytime soon. But thanks for the responses",47,65,2.9447189847297137,college
Thought I might get some advice here,,0,2,2.945100929174158,college
Bad test grade,"I recently got a 72% on a test worth 20% of my grade and was told by the professor to go talk to her during her office hours.

I imagine that she will ask me whether I'm struggling with understanding the work but the truth is that I honestly thought I understood everything so I don't really know what to tell her.

Any suggestions or tips on how to approach this upcoming conversation?",4,4,2.9476240773223066,college
How do I lose weight in college? (M18),"Currently I'm a freshman in college and I have found myself slowly gaining a few pounds over the course of the semester. I know I've had a long history with low metabolism and have repeatedly found myself gaining throughout the school year only to shed it all over the summer with a combination of eating less as a result of not having as much work and having more time to exercise. Last summer, I dropped to my lowest weight in a while, hitting 185 as a 6'2 male while also spending upwards of half an hour at the gym everyday burning calories on the elliptical. 

This semester, I tried to put myself on the same path, by consuming less food and playing sports as often as possible (I generally play a lot of racquet sports), but a tough schedule filled with homework has left me unable to find time to exercise and needing more food. My campus also isn't known for healthy food, so I don't even get the opportunity to eat healthy whenever I need to eat, and we also have a system of food that involves ""blocks"", so I'm almost forced to purchase a drink whenever I buy a meal just to use up a ""block"". 

Is there any way I can consistently lose weight with some simple exercises that don't take too long to do? I'm slowly getting more control over my schedule, but I still don't know if I can find a good enough time to exercise enough to cut down. Any help?",7,1,2.954800003248232,college
Humanities students - What made you choose your current major in university?,"I am a 1st year humanities students in canada. Wanna ask around reddit and get a feel on how each of the main humanities/arts programme such as history, sociology, political science, philosophy, etc are like

&#x200B;

for me i am leaning heavily towards history but idk if its the right choice for me based on my interests, personality and job prospects lel XD",8,1,2.965853243988973,college
How to deal with a tough professor?,"Background

- Exams are 95% of overall grade; 5% is attendance 
- Test 1 no one got over 90+; there is no curve
- 5 students got between 80-90
- Under 20 students got 70-80 (including me with a low 70)
- 100+ under 70 
- we just got an SI leader last week 


Today he lectured us how we aren’t doing enough and we are the reason for our failure.

H refuses to give us ALL the clues and hints or questions related to the exam, fair enough, but it’s a lot information

He gave us most of the exam on the review, but that only gets you a 70. He wants you to understand concepts inside and out (confusing question too or didn’t specify we needed to know real life current examples)

This is a survey class too.


Anyway, how do I deal with this? Anyone experienced anything similar?",5,2,2.966096299544529,college
I'm struggling to focus on what I'm reading in my textbook for a structural geology class. I find it impossible to sit down without any distractions and read this dense material. What are some things I can to do to help how I read and remember what I read?,"Its a lot of material to read, but it would help me so much to read it. I try but it gets boring or too much theory. What are some tips to help me focus besides turning off my devices and such",3,5,2.969105558803788,college
Should I switch schools?,"I go to a medium sized private university in the midwest, Saint Louis University. My family lives in the suburbs outside of St. Louis. I knew I'd have a hard time going far away so I played it safe and stayed home. My best friends went to Mizzou and I visited her this weekend and had a great time. I liked the atmosphere more and had way more fun. People at SLU either go out all the time or not at all, and I like to be in the middle. Should I transfer schools at semester, or wait until after freshman year is over and reevaluate? I'm having a tough time making friends; I made some but they started attacking me at dinner one night after a few weeks of snide comments. They just make me feel worse about myself :(",0,1,2.9693601884334178,college
When is it a good idea to take a semester off from school?,I’m a junior in college right now and I’ve been starting to question whether college is worth another 3 semesters. I’m living in a house paying rent for the first time and I’m in a money crunch. A semester off might give me time to recuperate and find more motivation. Anyone in this sub ever taken a break from college?,8,2,3.000216669914899,college
How can I get through a class that I am struggling mentally and emotionally on?,"I'm struggling with a class that I mentally can't get through. Its a 2 part class, I took one part last semester and ended up dropping it the week before finals because if I failed it, it would hurt my GPA. I had a small possibility of passing it but I didn't want to risk it. I'm now taking another part of the class this semester, since they interchange which one is given, and I just feel stressed and defeated already.


I've been fighting with myself just to study. I keep procrastinating and trying to do other stuff when I should be studying. I get crazy stressed, anxious and start shaking because I'm affraid I'll fail. Even if I do get myself to study FOR HOURS and feel confident with the material I still end up failing my test!


The way the professor teaches this class is just not how I learn. He is the only proffesor that gives this class in the college so I'm stuck with him. He asks us to read from the book, then during class all he does is talk about the thing, no notes from him, he talks so fast that while I'm trying to write something down he has already said 2 other important things that I've missed! And he expects us to remember every word he's said and read from the book. He expects us to describe and analyze things HIS way.  It also doesn't help the english is my second language.


I feel stressed and just over all nervous about this and don't know how to get through it. I want to cry just thinking about that class. Its a requirement for my major and I dont know what to do. 


Does anyone have any tips as to how to overcome my fear of failing, how I can force myself to study or just anything at all that I could do?",2,1,3.0087351884334175,college
No idea how to study in a class,"Hey Reddit, so long story short I’m taking this history class that I find very difficult due to the professors teaching style. She gives us “outlines” on the key terms that are relevant to the lecture and gives no visual aid to assist in note taking. This isn’t a problem since I’m able to use a recorder but looking over my notes I found is useless for this class in particular. For example, she tells us to memorize key points from the lectures and I make note of it with a star or what not on my notes, but when we have quizzes it’s almost as if a word bank is scrambled onto a sheet of paper. We are given quizzes every 2 weeks so that’s about 6 50 minute lectures worth of notes and “key terms” yet when I study 100% of what I didn’t focus on is on the quiz. I’m pretty much writing this to ask if anyone has any tips if they have ever been in a similar situation like this, I have a midterm coming up which covers all 6 of these outlines and past quizzes. Going by my own  prior strategies I can’t help but feel I will bomb this and it will basically make or break my grade since I already did horrendous on the quizzes that led up to to this point. Please help if you can",1,6,3.0284458365815654,college
I’m unsure if I want to continue.,"Hey everybody, I’m a sophomore in a private university studying computer science and cybersecurity. Right now I’m at a crossroad in my mind. After 3 semesters, this being my third, I am at approximately $50,000 in debt and feel like coming to college in the first place was a mistake.  I am having huge problems with motivation even after changing my major 2 times already.  I am the first person in my family to seek higher education and they are always talking about how proud they are of me even though my grades are in a very bad spot right now.  I miss seeing my friends and family and I actually miss working like I did while in high school.  Honestly after this semester I don’t know if I am even going to have the opportunity to come back for another.  The thing holding me back is the criticism I will face from my family and the tremendous debt I have already taken on.  Does anyone have any advice they can offer me? Thanks for reading!",5,3,3.0371726884334174,college
Struggling with Tests,"Hey guys, I’m a college freshman and I’m really struggling with tests. I study A LOT, always pay attention in class and take notes, read the book, go to practice problem sessions, do the old exams multiple times, do all the practice problems, etc. but I do horrible on the tests. I stress constantly about tests because I don’t want to do bad and it never fails. I was always an A student in high-school (I know it’s a whole other ballpark) but still I am doing horribly and I don’t know what to do. It seems like I am the only one having this much trouble. Is there anything I can do to do better? Anything help is appreciated. Thank you.",3,8,3.0409921328778617,college
"Online course, PROCTORIO?",I will potentially be using Proctorio for a sociology class and I really want to know what I'm getting into. I've read other threads on here discussing what measures I should take both before and after the POTENTIAL download of Proctorio. Some of those reviews are about bad experiences and now I'm fearful it will sniff out my anxiety as cheating.  I've only downloaded CCleaner to make my system presentable but is there anything I should be worrying about in terms of encryption? Is there anything I should download? I have not installed it yet but I'm wondering if it's a better idea to just drop the course?,2,1,3.049383336581566,college
Psychology paths for bachelors degree,"Hi everyone! 
I currently have 3 semesters left in college as a psychology and criminal justice double major. I’ve always been very interested in both topics but I have no idea what to do once I graduate and I don’t have much more time to figure it out. 

I would love to have others input on what kinds of jobs you got after graduating, or what jobs you currently have as someone with a psychology background.",3,2,3.0518138921371216,college
"Studied my ass off for an exam, felt confident, ended up getting a 70%","So this was my third physics test of the semester. Somehow I got B’s the first two tests despite not really studying and kinda just winging it. This time I decided to actually get my shit together and really study. I told myself I was gonna get an A on this 3rd test. So I studied my ass off, watched 5 hours worth of The Organic Chemistry Tutor on YouTube, did all of the assigned practice problems, and felt like I had it down. I take the test and the questions are way harder than the practice problems. I had no idea how to do most of them. Ended up getting a 70% despite studying way harder than the first two exams. To make matters worse, my classmates got A’s on the test but agreed that it was really difficult. And yes, I did study with them prior to the test too. We met up outside of school and worked on problems together and I really felt like I had it all down. So how the hell did I manage to do so bad but yet get by with B’s on the other two tests by not really studying? I’m so frustrated, confused, and upset. I know this isn’t the right thing to do but I kinda want to just give up at this point and change my whole major. I know that sounds stupid and immature but life has been kicking my ass these past few months and I’m tired of failing. Also I’m crying as I type this so I probably sound really dramatic and I apologize for that.",7,14,3.053295373618603,college
Module Classes?,"Hey everyone! I am a college freshman this year, and I am starting to plan my spring schedule. I am planning on taking module classes. I have it set up to take 3 module classes from January-March. I will take another 3 module classes from March-May. This will be a total of 19 semester hours which will all be online. The professors have good reviews so that makes me feel a little better. Has anyone ever taken online module classes? Am I making a massive mistake by setting up my schedule this way? I am taking 15 credit hours this semester with no problem, but they are all on campus. I go to a community college if that matters.",0,1,3.0569875032482323,college
Major major,"I don't know what to do for the latter half of a BS degree (I have an AS of general science). I'd be an engineer but all the schools near me have like 160+ credit programs and I'm 28... Plus they don't do night classes or have cooperative schedules. (Calc one is held once every other year kind of bs...)

I thought about a degree in math, but why? And business and biology degrees are over saturated in the market. So, I feel like I'd be throwing my money away.

I'm a pretty good writer, and could do an English degree, but I don't have the passion for it....

Help.",4,1,3.0697884291741584,college
"Overwhelmed by college, not sure what to do","I am in a Public Ivy. I am working my ass off with little time for rest, yet it seems like my math grade isn't looking good . . . I have no idea what to do. I mean I've decided I'll go to office hours more. butother than that, I'm just scared of failing this class and unsure if I made the right choice coming here cause I feel alone and burnt out. No time to socilize cause I'm slow when doing my work. Does anyone have advice for this situation? I am taking 3 classes this semester  (13 credits) I can't withdraw from anything, I just am looking for ways to be more efficient. Also any advice about dealing with doubts about being at this school are appreciated.",5,13,3.0790476884334175,college
"College professors and TA’s, how should I approach my professor about “outside” requirements for a class?","One of my classes requires that we go see six plays/dances and write a 2-3 page paper on each for a grade throughout the semester. 

These plays/dances are 4 hours a piece, and cost 10-15$ a piece to attend. For the majority of students this wouldn’t be an issue,

But I physically cannot attend these with my current living arrangements. I make rent by 50-60$ every month after all my other bills and expenses, I can’t afford to take a day off work to spend 4 hours watching a play.

He doesn’t have any alternatives listed in the syllabus, how should I bring this up to him at office hours? 

I can’t just take a zero either, these papers are 5% each of our total grade, so 30% altogether. That would wreck my average if I did that.",4,11,3.083040743988973,college
What do you do if you waste a day sleeping or playing a game instead of school and studying?,I feel like crap for doing that :( I already gave myself the weekend off and now Monday :(,3,2,3.100181947692677,college
Struggling,"I did Well in my first semester of college, I got good grades and I was happy. This is my second semester and apart from my Pre calculus and other classes. I am struggling. I got 68 on my first bio exam and I got 70 on the second exam. This is the first time in my life am getting a low score. My next exam is on Thursday and am pretty much discouraged and tired and I don’t know what to do anymore",2,3,3.1081333365815658,college
"Instead Of Time Management, Do This",,1,17,3.112404169914899,college
"Safety Module Help (tightrope, haven, etc.)","Is there anyway to skip through these or speed them up? I have had to do many different versions of these safety modules for different, and I have the answers basically memorized, so I wish there was a way to speed them up. If there is a way to get through these faster it would be super helpful!",1,1,3.1158879662111953,college
will i regret not going to college? (ireland),"im in ireland and i am planning to instead of pursuing a college degree in computer science like i originally planned, i will be doing an apprenticeship in cybersecurity. the apprenticeship will have me work with a company and taking exams at the same time. i chose this over college because i realised it was next to impossible to attend the university i originally wanted and i could never afford the cost of college in ireland and i want to get experience with companies. but something that honestly bothers me is that i will potentially regret not attending college, my mother claims i'll regret not attending university for the experience. i feel i will miss out on the college experience such as meet people and having a more student like life, but i think i would rather go directly into the sector and getting paid, the idea of affording college in ireland always gave me bad anxiety in school. another concern i have is that without university ill lose out on future jobs and emigration options, as soon as i finish i plan to emgirate out of ireland at best earliest point. even if i make it with a multinational and escape ireland, will i forever regret not getting my degree, going to college parties and doing research and in general being a college student?, i can't help but worry about this.",2,3,3.1240361143593436,college
What good habits do you need to learn when studying for an exam? Asking for a friend...,,4,0,3.124695836581566,college
Can someone please dumb down this question for me?,"Why did the Founders create a republic that simultaneously protected individual liberties and the institution of slavery?

I’m not very smart. I have to write 5 pages over this question and I have barely any idea what it means. Thanks",8,4,3.1288856513963803,college
"My roommate left water/juice, leftover food, and napkins at the bottom of our trash and recycling cans, and it congealed. How do I clean it out","Yeah I don't know why either. I do put trash bags in there, but she doesn't bother to aim if the bag falls off. This weekend I'm getting our HA involved",1,2,3.1310615773223067,college
Does getting an associates matter if I’m just going to transfer?,"I’m going for biochemistry but doing basic/entry classes at a community college to save money. 

Does having an associates degree actually matter if I’m just going to transfer to a 4 year? If it doesn’t, when should I transfer?",7,1,3.1319990773223063,college
I’ve practiced my presentation over 15 times and still feel like I’m gonna blank out when it’s time to give it.,"I have a group presentation this Thursday for my business class. Back in high school, I used to hold a paper in my face and read off of it and my classes only had 30 kids. Well this one I have to do without the paper and in front of 60 kids and I think that’s making me nervous. 

Anyone have any tips?",5,4,3.1329944476926768,college
"I don't have any understanding of what constitutes a ""good"" grade and it's taking a toll on my emotional health.","(TL;DR at the bottom)

For some background: I'm in my first semester at a SLAC that I love, and I'm taking classes that really interest me and put me on track for the majors/minors I'm considering (politics, international relations, writing & rhetoric). For the most part, I'm exactly where I want to be—but my perfectionism won't stop nagging at me, and I'm realizing how inexperienced I really am in coping with it.

Throughout high school, I was consistently an A+ student, to the point where I didn't get a grade below an A on a single assignment until I got my first college essay grade back and received an A-. I know how ungrateful/petty/neurotic this makes me sound—and I am certainly neurotic—but I've been getting a few A- grades and think it's likely I'll end up with an A- instead of an A for one of my classes. At my school, an A- calculates out to a 3.7 GPA, while an A/A+ is a 4.0. 

When I see the A- on my grade reports, I can't help but feel anxious and start to berate myself.

I'm planning on applying to law schools after finishing my undergrad—no top 5s, but I'd like to go somewhere with a good reputation—and already find myself getting sucked back into the same perfectionistic, grade-driven mentalities that tormented me through high school.

I guess what I'm looking for is anyone who relates; anyone who can guide me as to what a ""good"" grade really is; anyone who has suggestions for how to re-frame my mindset so that I don't torture myself for what I think I should generally consider a good grade.

TL;DR: I got all A+ grades in high school and have received a number of A- grades on my essays since starting college this year. For some reason, this is starting to feel like a ""bad"" grade to me (even though it shouldn't) and I'm looking for advice on shifting this mindset.",4,3,3.1352513921371212,college
How do you bounce back from a terrible week?,"Last week I got broken up with, cut myself off from toxic people who I thought were my friends, and just had an all-round shitshow of a week. I have little to no motivation to do any of my assignments right now. What are some good tips to help get me back into the swing of things?",9,22,3.1371726884334175,college
SAP appeal first semester as a transfer student,"Hey, guys. I'm a junior who just transferred from a community college with an associate's to a university, and due to withdrawing from two out of four of my classes (two of my classes have separate labs, so it's more like four classes), I will have to fill out a SAP appeal for next semester. I'm setting up an appointment with my advisor to complete my plan of study, and I have an appointment on the 29th at the student clinic to get my mental health assessed. My problem is that there's not one singular issue that contributed to me having to withdraw, but rather, a bunch of little ones. For example, I've been having financial issues and have to work from 11:30pm to 2:30am 6 days a week, had some surgical complications from an ingrown toenail procedure, and have been having a lot of mental health problems-- while I haven't been diagnosed yet, I believe that I'm suffering from post-traumatic stress from abuse I suffered from my step father. It's caused me to have really bad anxiety (I had previously been diagnosed with anxiety, but it's never been this severe) and nightmares that it often takes me over half the day to calm down from. This is the main reason I've missed class and been unable to focus on my studies. Does that SAP appeal committee expect one major event to have contributed to my withdrawal, or will they accept that it's been a mishmash of different factors? I'm totally unfamiliar with the process, so I guess I'm looking for a bit of reassurance. Thanks, guys.",0,2,3.154927318063047,college
My mom is very opposed to big schools; does she have a point?,"Essentially I'm applying for computer science, and a lot of the best universities for computer science are large, public institutions. There are smaller schools such as RPI and WPI which have good CS programs, but it seems like the best are usually either Ivies, MIT/Caltech, CMU, or... at a more reasonable target level, UW-Madison, Purdue, CU-Boulder, etc.

I think that going to a higher ranked university such as UW-Madison or Purdue might improve my job prospects noticeably, in comparison to something like RPI or WPI, which despite being well-known, might not have the same quality of CS education that is there in the public ivies.

My mom, however, is very opposed to me going to a big institution. She has very valid concerns such as it being difficult to form relationships with professors, or seek needed help, or it being very difficult to get around a huge campus etc. I am also in agreement with that. My dad would prefer for me to go to a bigger institution, saying that being flooded with ppl etc is ""part of growing up"" and that a bigger institution would offer more opportunities.

One thing which I think a bigger institution might have is a party scene. I'd really like to be able to party, meet girls, etc but this is of course much harder at a school with the RPI ratio (lol). It's not everything, but it is something. A lot of people only start dating in university, and I feel like partying once or twice a week is unlikely to have such serious ramifications for me. A place like Madison or Boulder might also offer more opportunities for extracurricular activities such as sports, or research activities. 

Bigger schools might also have a larger alumni network.

Again, I don't know, I'm just asking for what your opinions are. I know bigger schools might actually suck for the reasons I mentioned; however a lot of the higher rated schools are big CS schools. I feel like this might make more opportunities open to me. Furthermore, as I said, social life is also a factor; I want to have the ""college experience.""

Another thing I should mention is that my parents live abroad, as do I, so all of these schools are OOS for me. Private schools have no tuition differential for being OOS anyways, but yeah that's just a point that I think is important to recognize. My family's income is roughly $200k per year, which while high, means that tuition might make a fair amount of difference, especially with my brother heading off to uni as well in a few years from now. I don't know, though.

Thoughts?",21,6,3.1645569476926765,college
Not sure what to do,"Hey. I am someone who struggled a lot in high school and felt like I was never going to graduate. I don't learn as quickly and it puts me behind sometimes. This semester, for some reason, I ended up with more classes than I can handle. I have been swamped with work and it's really taking a toll on me. I want to drop Graphic Arts because it has nothing to do with my field and I am really far behind/struggling with it. I hate going to it. My parents refuse to let me drop any classes even though I have tried telling them I am struggling a lot and they don't seem to understand at all. They keep calling me lazy and that I don't want to do the work and that isn't the case at all. Like I said, I struggle in school and I always have. My college was paid through a G.I bill so I don't know what to do. It is making me hate college more and more every day.",5,6,3.167381021766751,college
Super uncomfortable rocking dorm desk chair,"All of my dorm furniture is fine except for the rocking, two-position chair at my desk, which [I know a ton of universities use](https://www.quora.com/Why-do-all-college-dorms-have-the-same-reclining-chairs). I find them super uncomfortable, particularly because I'm a smaller than average person. If I'm sitting back in the chair, I get back support but it rocks back and I also can't reach the floor. If I'm sitting at the front of the chair, my posture gets horrible because no back support and it's generally uncomfortable.

It honestly has been really bothering me and making it hard to study at home. Does anyone have any tips on making the chair more comfortable for studying? Buying another chair isn't really an option, and I know that I could study at libraries and such but that's not always practical.

Thanks!

EDIT: A SOLUTION HAS BEEN REACHED. I bought two of [these doorstops](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00004YOHN/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o02_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1). For the price of $7, I now have a chair that doesn't tilt, which ended up solving most of my issues with it. Good luck fellow students",10,9,3.1983185217667507,college
Does you college allow you to take classes off campus?,"I attend college in Nebraska and i'm originally from Philly. I petitioned for taking gen ed classes at my cc in philly during winter break to speed up my graduation; I was denied because my school wants me to take classes that ""meet their standards"" and they only make exceptions for those who only need 1 or 2 classes during their senior year. I know this is up to the school but i wanted to know how does it work for your college?",2,5,3.2001935217667508,college
What are some differences you noticed between community college and a four year college?,I plan on transferring from a 4 year to a community college and I just want to know about the difference between the two? I know you can get a associates degree at a community college and it’s cheaper.,6,2,3.2045337995445284,college
College v.s. Millitary,"So I'm currently a sophomore in high school and have been thinking about college v.s. the Millitary. I'm divided on which one I should choose. The Millitary has the Montgomery bill, which pays for a bit of your college. Although it pays for some of your college, I'm not to sure if it's worth joining the Millitary for about 20k of loan help. For college I've seen that it takes alot of money to go to one. Scholarships are a thing but I'm not sure how much those can help. Does anybody have any advice on which one is more beneficial?",40,24,3.2206449106556403,college
Labour studies vs Economics,I’m a second year university student and have struggled with my major. My first semester did not go well but my second semester last year was great. I like learning about money and the thinking of consumers but I’m not sure if I want to major in economics because it’s a lot of math and that’s not my strong suit. Then again labour studies is less math but I don’t know if I want to learn about labour. I want to graduate in four years and I already have the intro classes for economics it’s just the math I’m worried about,3,2,3.223526855100084,college
High school to college,"So i am at a college that is on a quarter system. I went straight from high school to college starting in fall. Right now i am failing horribly in my classes. No matter how much i study, i go into the test with confidence and come out knowing i failed. I took my third test in math today out of the 5 + final and i know i failed yet again. Wednesday i take my third biology test which i have no idea what to do given there is so much to learn. I am so lost and cant afford to drop out of college or fail. I am not physically capable of doing something without a college degree.",24,8,3.2479250032482323,college
Potential minor switch thoughts?," I am in first year, planning on majoring in Computer Science and minoring in Psychology. Initially I wanted Bio to be my other minor because I enjoyed high school bio a lot. However university/college bio has turned out to be quite disappointing... it is my least favourite course. Not really a fan of the content and the scientific literature assignments.

I am thinking of changing from a Bio minor to an English/Literature minor. I really like literature and I know it would be something I enjoy. However ""practically"" bio goes better with CS because of bioinformatics, and bio is also a good supplement to psychology (because of all the physiological aspects like neuroanatomy, sense, etc). What're your guys' thoughts?",3,3,3.255853243988973,college
Does graduating with honors really matter?,"I’m trying to balance working full time and going to school full time. I made it a personal goal to graduate with honors (cum laude) but I’m finding it to be more stressful than it may be worth. C’s get degrees, amirite? For those of you who have already graduated, does it actually matter??",27,49,3.273480558803788,college
Chemical Engineering,"I’m a freshman this year and my major is chemical engineering. It’s always what I’ve told myself I want to do; I’ve always been interested in STEM and I took plenty of science classes in high school. I was part of the IB program and I took 3 years of chemistry in high school not to mention extra chem labs and such at the college in my hometown. But as soon as I got my first “general chem for engineers” test score back I was in for a harsh reality. I got a 60, and this seemed pretty fucked up considering I had studied this material for 3 years while the test was designed for someone who had studied the material for just a little bit of a semester. Why is this shit so hard? I’ve noticed the same trend with my calc class: it is fucking difficult. I admit that I may not have as much scholastic motivation as I used to, but I still feel like I should be able manage these courses. Am I just going to be struggling to stay afloat like this throughout my engineering degree?",8,1,3.2795106513963805,college
are online classes worth it?,so next semester i'm going to be taking an online class. what is that like? is it more or less work than a traditional class? how do you take exams?,6,1,3.279800003248232,college
Professor cant teach and exam is tomorrow.,"So I'm a student at the University of Texas at Arlington. I'm studying industrial engineering there. A lot of professors here tend to lack the ability to teach a class which really frustrates me and makes me hate the university.

Here is the scenario. The professor gives us PDF power points to look at for class. There are four chapters of power points and each are like 100-200 slides long. The class is nearly 3 hours long one day a week and for 90% of the class all she does is read off powerpoints and then for exam review he just tells us what to look at to prepare for tests. As she would tell us what to look for to prepare for the exam I try to write the information down. I have spoken to other students and they told me she is easy and her exams have no trick questions.

&#x200B;

There have been times I have thought about going to the administration office and complaining about professors who cannot teach. However, I also think I should wait and take the test first before deciding to say something.

&#x200B;

What do you guys think?",6,12,3.2951240773223067,college
What should I major in?,I am a high school senior who is wanting to know what to major in when I get to college. I have heard that I can major in anything and take any pre-reqs that most PA schools require. How do I take the necessary pre-reqs in college? Am I supposed to minor in Biology? I am really interested in majoring in History or Geography but I feel like this is a foolish idea. What should I do?,12,4,3.303503706951936,college
Dressing nice?,"Someone my friends were talking and were saying that they plan to dress a little nicer to their classes when they start their bachelors degree. Saying like it’s okay now in your AA to just dress casual, but once they start getting higher up they want to dress a little nicer to class. I’m starting my bachelors this spring, i’m a bio major. Am i suppose to be dressing nicer to class? I mean most of my classes are going to be labs anyways but now i’m paranoid i’m going to breaking some unspoken rule of dress code for class???


I’m sorry if this doesn’t make sense i couldn’t figure out the right wording.",29,19,3.3111425958408254,college
Should I study for an open note test?,"I have a discreet math exam coming up and the teacher is really chill about the tests, we can literally bring in anything from our notes, old homework, printouts from online, and we can even program our calculators to do the work for us.

The test is also out of 50, but with 75-100 points possible, so you could do like 1 or 2 parts on every problem and get 100%.

Do I still need to study?",14,13,3.323445836581566,college
Major Help!,"Hi everyone! I’m currently a freshman and have been deciding between 2 majors. Economics B.A. or a B.S. in Advertising. I’m currently in the CAS and can major in Econ, but if I wanna do Advertising, I need to transfer to the communications school which is extremely hard cause I go to Syracuse and Newhouse is competitive! I am willing to try and transfer though. I just want to know which major is better and is a smarter decision. Please be honest. I would like to get a good job after college and whenever I talk to people, they always say go for Econ. I love Economics but I also love Advertising. Please tell what is a better option :) Would double majoring be a good idea? Thank you!",8,1,3.3345337995445288,college
Question about grade,"I got an 86 on a philosophy paper. 
I'm a tyrant towards myself so an 86 is a fuck no. I'm gonna do a revision that he offers to try to get an A. But just curious, if papers are only 12% of the grade in this class then can I still get an A at the end of the semester with this 86? If I make As on everything else ?",19,0,3.3524388921371213,college
Transferring - what's my next step?,"I'm currently a first year student majoring in film production at a school on the east coast. It's safe to say that I'm not enjoying my time here too much. For one, my initial goal was to become a screenwriter and write for TV, but I always had this doubt in the back of my head even before coming to school. Now that I'm here, I realized that my heart wasn't really in it, and I'm definitely a lot more ambivalent about the future. I've also had trouble fitting into the culture here, and it's been hard making friends. And to top it off, a week after I moved in, my grandma ended up in the hospital and that fucked me up. I'm 1000 miles away from home and feeling as if I had no control made me very upset. I'm halfway into the semester and I'm depressed, unmotivated, and lonely.

I decided that I wanted to transfer somewhere close to home, but I'm not sure what steps I should take. Ideally, I'd like to take the next semester off, take classes at community college, then transfer for fall 2020, but I don't think my parents would let me do that and I'm afraid of my credits not transferring as well (I also want to switch majors from film production to sociology).

I'm meeting with my academic advisor tomorrow but I wanted extra advice here from fellow transfer students or anyone who has felt isolated and helpless away at school. Thanks :)",2,1,3.3586888921371214,college
I don't think I'm learning anything at my internship,I got an internship at a publication in my city that used to be a really big deal but in previous years has been declining in readership and switched to an online-only platform. I intern there for 15 1/2 hours a week unpaid and I don't feel like I'm doing anything or gaining any skills. I've tried pitching stories but they always get shot down because the website is only publishing stories within a specific niche and it's hard to find stories that I'm passionate about that fall into those parameters. I am not given any serious tasks and I just get told to work on pitches. I feel like I'm wasting my time and won't have anything to show for this at the end of it. Does anyone have any advice?,9,4,3.3975083365815655,college
Is it bad to take a semester off college.,"Sophmore here. 1st semester back after the summer. Not doing that well. Things are really hard for me and im stressed all the time, with lack of sleep and everything. Generally just not having a good time. I almost failed my very first semester of college, they sent me a  letter saying we dont want you, thankfully one of my professors at the time let me redo an assignment so i passed. This semester i keep missing things and failing tests, which i dont understand because i studied hard for them. I never wanted to come to college right after highschool to begin with. I just wsnted to take a break to get myself together. But my parents want me to follow the flock like everyone else..",8,5,3.4000199106556397,college
"Previous college holding transcripts due to money, I want to go back to school (in a different state now) is there grants or anything to help with the financial aspect to get my life back on track?","I owe a school 5k, and they're withholding my transcripts. It was with a cosmetology school and, while attending, I developed carpal tunnel syndrome in both wrists, limiting my ability to participate. By law, the school couldn't have me on campus and asked me to leave even though it was a medical condition. 

Years later (which is now) I'm wanting to get back into college and at least get my associates! I'd be the first in my family to have any form of degree, and that's really important to me to have a degree. I'm struggling financially, but Is there any type of grant, scholarship, to help assist me in paying the previous school back so I can get my office transcript and get back into college?? 
 TIA.",4,3,3.4033995402852693,college
13 credits in my first semester? Is that ok?,I am trying to transfer for the spring semester and I am dropping a 2 credit class so I will only be taking 13 right now for the first semester of my freshman year. Should I keep this class even if If it won't transfer anywhere or drop it?,2,2,3.4097421328778617,college
Stuck on a course that I don't want to be on,"Hey dudes, I am currently on a Level 2 Health and Social care course (retaking English voluntarily, Maths I failed)

The thing is that level 2 (HS) Does not have much options in terms of becoming a counselor and only level 3 leads to that, I have left it too late to change to the Art course I desire and do not know where to go next (Level 2 Art appeals to me way more than Level 3.) How do I cope with this and what are some solutions to make this year less hellish?

Also, I have been pestering them all term (2 Weeks left) constantly changing my mind and what course I want so it's not the schools fault for my predicament

Thanks for any suggestions",0,2,3.4603092625074914,college
What is something you learned in school that you use every day?,,4,7,3.51845741065564,college
Asking for letters of recommendation,"Hey guys, so basically I’m a transfer student and I haven’t had any contact with any of my teachers from high school but I feel like one teacher I had was great and I felt he felt the same way about me how do I go on about asking for a letter of recommendation? And second how would I go on about asking a former boss about writing a letter of recommendation, if possible at all? Thank you guys so much!!",4,3,3.5197074106556396,college
How to bounce back from poor grades?,^,9,4,3.6692560217667514,college
Degrees that land jobs,"Ok, so I’m currently in my last semester of being a sophomore (I’ve got a few junior level classes too) of mechanical engineering, and it’s just too much. I’m taking the bare minimum number of hour each semester and yet at the end of each semester there’s a class that I have to drop or that I don’t pass and need to retake. The school I go to is known for being quite tough, I’m already set on transferring to another school for next fall, so maybe I’ll take some electives next semester and give engineering one last try at the other school, but for now I’m considering what my alternatives are. I was thinking business, but I feel like that’s too common of a major to have a ton of job availability. It seems to me from a rather crude look at the situation like if you’re not doing STEM you’re better off doing a trade. Is there any degrees I’m missing that have good job prospects? I’m not interested in anything medical by the way.",10,2,3.671026855100084,college
Can I be a photographer with a communications degree?,"I can’t change concentrations. I’m a journalism concentration and I can’t afford to change because that would set back my graduation date and I can’t afford to stay at this college any longer. I tell people I want to be an editor or a journalist to get them off my back in truth, I never knew what I wanted to do. I was forced to pick something so my parents wouldn’t force me to become a doctor, which they would have if I couldn’t have decided. Anyways, photography appeals to me now. I took some photos for the school newspaper and I liked doing that. So I thought that maybe I could do that for a job. But can I make that work with the way things are now? If I take enough photos for the school newspaper then will it work out for me? I dunno what I should do to get to that point. 

I’m a communications major (BA) with a journalism concentration. I wanna do photography. I’m in my senior year. Help?",5,5,3.6807837995445287,college
"Gonna take Calc II concurrently with either General Physics or Organic Chemistry. Which would be the wiser choice, in the spirit of preserving my sanity","This upcoming spring semester I will be taking Calc II, an elective, and either General Physics or Organic Chem. That's the dilemma. Calc II has a frightening reputation, as does Organic Chemistry and Physics. I have to work around 25 hours a week. If that wasn't the case, I would just take all three concurrently and hope for the best. Unfortunately, that is not the case for me. Given the more personable nature of community college (smaller classes, genuine professors) I want to make the most out of this semester, seeing as it will be the last semester here at CC. That being said, for those of you who have taken these courses, between General Physics and OChem, which of the two would be more beneficial to have completed at community college vs. State?

Sorry, should have clarified. I am a biochem major, currently in first semester of sophomore year",5,2,3.7223347254704544,college
Impossible class,"Can anyone relate to me this semester? 
I’m taking pre calc this semester. It is the last class I need to get my associates and move onto the university. 
This class is so frustrating. I’m failing it. I stay up late doing homework and it’s still hard for me to grasp. I know I need to dedicate more time to it. But because I’m not understanding it, it deters me from wanting to study. I’m just so frustrated. I hate math and want this to be done with.",13,6,3.7561657439889733,college
What's a good major for me?,"I like using editing pictures together, examining buildings, seeing why certain things are there ... I also like learn about past/present history.",1,1,3.768017595840825,college
"I’m going to attend college next year, and I have no idea what I want to do","Like literally none. Most people at least have an idea of what they like, but I don’t. I can’t even do what I like, because I don’t know what I like. Is this normal? I know you can be undecided for freshman year, but does it slow you down significantly?",5,5,3.7702629662111957,college
I think I'm screwing things up,"I'm a month or so into my first semester and I think I'm fucking it all up.

I've missed every single assignment in all of my classes because I can never remember to do them, and they're all on Canvas so once the due date is up they're locked. I haven't even touched my math homework because I hate math so much and- yet again- never remember to do it. I feel like I can't focus or retain anything in my classes or lectures, and every day of classes I feel like I'm floating through them just wanting to get back to my dorm so I can focus on what I want to actually do, like work on my commissions or art.

I thought I'd be a good fit into nursing, the school I choose, but every day I feel stupider and stupider. I can't make up what I've already fucked up, and I know I won't remember anything in the future. My memory has gotten worse over the years, and before I went to college I was severely burnt out. In high school, I went from AB 3.7 GPA to having to rush credit recovery in the last month my senior year for one class and almost didn't graduate because I failed another.

I wanted to take a gap year before college but so many things happened, like being kicked out of my home, I felt forced to immediately go in. I know I have untreated ADD and depression, and I've just started seeing a therapist for it. I don't know what to do- my excuses don't feel like enough, I feel like I'm just trying to excuse being lazy and stupid, and I can't quit college because my family has already put so much money in I don't wanna waste it, but I feel so tired. I don't even know if nursing is the thing for me, I just thought it would because I've always liked helping people and making people comfortable or happy, especially when they're sick or injured, not to mention medicine has always made me curious. 

I feel like I jumped into college not knowing what to expect, and it's only made things worse, and I don't know how to come out of this with everyone happy.",4,5,3.772253706951936,college
Should I email my professor about a missed assignment?,My professor uses MyLab Math and he lets us redo all the homework. I haven’t missed an assignment or quiz on it and have scored 100% on all of them. I just missed my first assignment because I forgot about it and the deadline passed. I’m home for Columbus Day weekend and forgot. We have a quiz coming up based on these assignments. Should I email him and ask for an extension on these assignments since the next quiz is based on them? Should I ask if I can redo these assignments for the the points?,4,1,3.7836194476926766,college
Figuring out what I like and possibly my major.,"I am a 20 year old third year community college student. I've struggled with mental health for the past 5 years now and I don't really wanna use it as an excuse as to why I haven't actually pursued any of my actual interests or potential careers. Depression and life have just gotten in the way of my progress it feels like. I have also struggled with many identity crisis situations. I am about 14 Units away from transferring now and i still have no idea what major interests me or what type of career I would like to pursue. I have maintained about a 3.0 gpa, but not because i want to. Because I feel like I might as well be decent at school if I'm not going to be good at anything else. I feel major pressure from my parents and from myself on just transferring already to a CSU and UC so I haven't taken any extracurricular classes. I feel as if I don't really have the time for them either because I also work a part time job. Working and school has basically been what my life has revolved around and i feel too exhausted all the time to do anything else on my free time. I have a pretty decent social life for the most part and i don't really struggle in that area. Mostly just struggle with figuring myself out and what i would ultimately like to end up doing. I have considered dropping out of school for a while and saving up money in order to travel and become more independent.",2,2,3.7924504662111955,college
International relations — masters degree?,"Hello!

This is my first post on this sub. My name is Owais, and I’m currently a final year undergraduate student specializing in marketing. The course is known as Bachelors of Management Studies (BMS) in Mumbai, India. 

I’m currently interested in international relations and the media, and need some advice about whether to pursue a Masters degree in IR, media or law?

I was told by a career counselor to pursue an MBA, but I honestly am not interested. 

Could you please shed some insights into some of the best colleges (India or Abroad), and likely career options? 

Thanks :)",1,1,3.7929250032482327,college
Has anyone successfully changed residential status and became eligible for in-state tuition after attending as an out-of-state applicant first year?,"I am a US citizen but has lived overseas (not for military reasons) for the past sixteen years. My parents doesn't own any real estate in the states, and neither of them has US citizenship. Is it possible for me to become a resident at the particular state I go for college? If yes, can I apply for in-state tuition afterwards?",8,3,3.8032259291741584,college
My living situation is stressing me out and I don’t know what to do,"I’m in my first semester at school and I love all of my classes so much, I’m having a great time there and I’m thriving academically. However, meeting people and making friends has been so hard. I live in a suite of four people (2 rooms of 2 with a bathroom between) and the other three are best friends and exclude me constantly. They all have a lot more in common with each other than I do with them, and it’s not really their fault, but I feel like I try to be nice and do everything the best that i can, and yet they’re unnecessarily standoffish. I don’t know what their problem is with me, but they ignore me most of the time and they belittle me when they do talk to me. Being in a living situation where I don’t feel comfortable talking to anyone around me has stressed me out to a point where I’m severely depressed and anxious (I’ll probably go to counseling services this week, I’ve been putting it off too long). My parents and boyfriend have noticed that I’ve been acting way different, I’m just beaten down and feel anxious and stressed all the time and i don’t know how to talk to anyone about how I’m feeling. But I don’t know what to do or how to handle my living situation. I don’t think it’s bad enough that i should move out, but I’m afraid that if I talk to them or talk to our RA then they’ll just talk more shit about me behind my back than they already do.",1,1,3.811651855100084,college
I am failing a class that I have already taken before? What to do?,"So I have just transferred from a 4 year school to another 4 year school. I had finished Calculus 1 with a B at University, finished Calc 2 with a C after withdrawing from it in the summer due to a death in the family. I had a 3.56 GPA  as a double Neuro and CS major with my only weakness really being calculus before this. My new school did not take my credits for Calc 1 and 2, so I had to start over. 



Now, the math department selected my classes for me, so I didn't get a say in professor. My professor has like a 2 star rating on ratemyprofessors, with multiple comments saying beware, worse teacher I've ever had at this institution, fails everyone and the department is okay with these complaints, etc.  I tried to brave through it, because I know calculus. Maybe not perfectly, but I thought I had a good grasp before. I spend hours studying and doing homework. I had tutoring from math majors. I went to my teacher and asked if she had any examples of old exams or practice problems and she said she didn't give out practice questions or old exams. Whenever I missed a couple classes due to a serious medical concern, I went to her office and asked for clarification on some notes, and she brushed me off and wouldn't explain the concepts, just got up and walked out when I asked her a question.



I failed the first exam. A whopping 60. My professor makes her own questions and does not coordinate with the other calc classes who have totally different test questions/department exams. The questions are not like those in the textbook. No partial credit. I think the class average was around 60-70, and I saw no one get higher than a B- on their exam. My professor says she does not believe in curving grades, and said that those of us who expressed concerns about their grades need to stop worrying because she knows way more than we do about how to do her job, and that she has had classes before where many people do bad, there's nothing to be done about it. She also cursed in my face for telling her I couldn't find her office hours (I'm dyslexic)





I just got my second exam back, and I got a 59. The last day to withdraw is next week. I feel sick because I will most likely have to transfer again (I was diagnosed with an autoimmune disease after starting school here and I want to be closer to home) but I want to apply to Emory, which is rather selective. How bad will it look if I withdraw from this class if I am trying to transfer again and I want to go to grad school in the future? I think it looks very bad because I withdrew from Calc 2 in the past.


What should I do?",10,3,3.8228439847297135,college
Senior Year & Relationships,"So I am currently a senior. Do not worry - finding a relationship or women are not a priority for me BUT I got hit with the reality that once I graduate, it will be *much* harder to meet women than it is now.

I feel as if I have wasted the last four years of my life on just ""myself"" i.e I would only gym, classes, engineering clubs, research and intern each summer.  My current body / hook-up count is almost twice my ACT score. I have a solid friends (mainly guys) and am considered extroverted. I came into this school year three weeks ago that I will get rid of my 'degeneracy' and I will try a dating early on. Met someone at a school concert and once I got to know her I thought she could've been girlfriend material. Well this was my third actual date (ever) with intentions of not just a one night stand... I felt extremely empty after she left. I got blocked too once I found her on Tinder the next week and hit her with the ""Which way do I swipe"" DM.

Should I try to actually go on wholesome dates? Unfortunately I 'glew up' my senior year of high-school and my parents are divorced. I have no idea how relationships are supposed to work - I have only been exposed to casual encounters.

Pointless post but...

TLDR: A fuckboy is currently having a quarter-life crisis.

ELI5",6,3,3.8233995402852696,college
Anyone here have problems fitting in with the younger folks in school?,"I am in my late twenties, and I feel that people might think I am autistic because my interests include Anime and Video games. 

A lot of the organizations I have in have people that are 4-5 grades below me, and I don't want this to be an obstacle to fit in.",3,0,3.8398000032482327,college
Does it get better after high school?,"Specifically to those who moved out of state, does life generally get better? Did you guys end up feeling less alone, more fulfilled and in more control of your lives?",12,8,3.8580638921371215,college
Having trouble determining whether some of my classes transfer,"So I’m currently a CC student in California, and I’m looking to transfer to Cal Poly in fall 2021. I’m a math and computer science major and all the lower division math I can take will be done by than. I’ve used to assist to make sure that all the major specific classes relating to math, computer science, and other STEM subjects will transfer, but I also wanted to make sure the GE courses I’ve taken were transferable too.

So far everything I’ve taken articulates to something at Cal Poly. Except for my history and political science class.  Assist doesn’t have an articulation (says “NOT AVAILABLE FOR ARTICULATION” for what would be their corresponding classes) for the two classes I’ve taken despite both of them being IGETC approved and being required classes for us to take at my community college.

Will I just have to complete those classes again there after I transfer? Or does them being on IGETC override everything?",4,3,3.875945836581566,college
How does applying as a transfer student work?,How do I grab my highschool transcripts and have them sent to the college im applying to? How do letters of recommendation work with professors and how do they submit them? How do I get my college transcripts sent to the college im applying to?,4,1,3.8768949106556403,college
Parents keep telling me what to do,"Hi, I’m a college sophomore (actuarial science major). You’d think that my parents would be used to me being away and making my own decisions but I guess not! I’m tired of my parents telling me what to do and if I try to give them my own opinion then they threaten to stop paying for my car/phone bill/etc and that they’ll stop helping me pay for school. The big fight tonight was that I want to go on a one week residency/service trip in Vancouver with my school’s orchestra but it’s happening during a normal school week. I want to expand my horizons and I’ve never left the country nor will I ever be able to study abroad since I’m on a non-major orchestra scholarship that requires me to be in orchestra every semester. They told me that if my grades go down after being out of the country for that week then they’re going to force me to come back home so I can “reevaluate my life.” I don’t know what to do and I’m pissed as hell at the moment.",6,4,3.9024157439889735,college
Does anyone else hate when people says college is the best years of your life.,My college life so far is okay. Nothing amazing but not terrible. Whenever I hear people say it’s the best four years of your life I get a little upset because my college experience isn’t that amazing to be the best years of my life. And also if these four years are the best what about the next decades are they not supposed to be as good.,40,75,3.90601528102601,college
Scholarship Requirements," 

Let's say that a school requires a 3.25 GPA and an 1100 SAT or 22 ACT to be considered for any scholarships.

If that person has a 3.0 but a 1500 SAT or 34 ACT would this person just not be considered for any scholarships?",4,2,3.92695278102601,college
Is it possible to transfer to a 4 year college out of CC with 30+ credits/1year in California?,"I’ve heard it’s possible to transfer with fewer than 60 credits, but has anyone within this thread actually done it?",4,2,3.9406449106556396,college
Any advice talking to the dean about a professor?,"Not sure how much detail I should include. My classmates and I went to the dean few weeks ago because of our horrible professor. Like he can't even teach kind of horrible. All the dean did was assign a lab tech, which didn't help at all, and get us a tutor at the STEM center on Wednesdays, even though most people have work or other classes. Other issues came up last Wednesday. I actually started a petition to get rid of the professor and got some signatures, then I sent it to the dean and BCC'd his bosses. I have a meeting with the dean tomorrow after class. Alone.",2,3,3.9472421328778617,college
How long does it take you to write an essay?,"I feel like my writing is not the best compared to other people in my class, I know comparing is bad but I can’t help but wonder why I struggle so much to write a paper. Usually it takes me about 3 days to just come up with something and that seems disappointing. I have trouble organizing my ideas, I overthink what I want to say because I want my paper to be good. I waste time just sitting there deciding what I’m going to type. What are some tips to improve on writing? And how long do you usually take to write something?",3,1,3.96314491065564,college
Do you ever get nervous once you have to go back to your dorm after spending a weekend at home?,,4,9,3.979892595840825,college
Difference between Electrical Engineering major and Electrical & Computer Engineering major?,,0,1,3.981790743988973,college
529 Spending Question,Curious if I was allowed to use 529 money for groceries and some spending at fast food places. Not trying to abuse the system but wondering if I could take money out for those necessary spendings on food,1,1,3.986455095840825,college
Exams and college life,"This is my second semester in college excluding summer semester and I am struggling. During my first semester, I was happy. My courses were going peacefully and I got good grades. I studied days before the exam and I will get an A but now everything has changed and this is just my second semester. Am struggling in one of my class. I haven’t been able to get good grades in all the exams. The days I spent studying during the first semester, I spend it panicking now. What should I do",2,1,3.996489818063047,college
Do you know of a Christian college that requires students to study their denomination's theology in particular?,"Don't tell me that most Christian schools aren't like that, I know. I go to one. But I'm working on a project and google isn't helping me.",6,0,4.004348614359343,college
Advice on raising gpa?,"Hi everyone. I am in my first semester of Sophomore year and I have a 3.00 gpa. I am majoring in International Relations, but not sure whether or not to continue in this path. 

Im worried about my gpa and i want to fix it and get it up as much as i can. Any advice on how to do so?",7,2,4.011350929174158,college
Working full time and going to school full time,"I'm currently thinking about going back to college so I can further my career. I'm 23, work full time in marketing at the moment, but am having trouble applying for new marketing jobs and getting a pay raise without having a degree.

I work 45 hours a week so I'm not sure if I can keep a job while trying to finish a degree as fast as possible. My current options would be to work full time and going to school at night after 5pm, or work full time while taking online classes, or quit my job and going to school full time.

I see going back to school as a priority. I would not want to quit my job (good pay/benefits), but I'd be willing to so I can further my career. Is there anyone who's been in a similar situation? How did you handle working full time/schooling full time?",1,1,4.015008336581566,college
How do you feel about writing papers?,"Yeah I get writing is an important part of a balanced education, but does anyone else feel like it's a bit ridiculous?

Having to write several papers about topics you don't really care about

Spending long amounts of time stressing about it

Trying to lengthen the paper and recycling ideas (especially when your ideas can be expressed in two pages or so instead of six)

And I'm sure professors don't like grading papers as much as students don't like writing them. It just feels like you're playing into a game.

There's got to be a better way of showing you understand and are educated about a subject than writing monotonous papers",3,1,4.023943521766752,college
Is this an average amount of math work?,"I’m currently taking statistics online at a community college. I’m having a lot of trouble getting all the work done each week. On average it takes me anywhere between 12-20 hours to complete the modules and take the quiz. It’s not that I don’t understand the material, it just takes forever to get through all the material and answer the problems. It is really starting to affect my mental health and my life outside of school is nearly nonexistent. Every time I do my work I get frustrated at how long I’ve been doing it to the point that I cry every week. Currently typing this after I just cried for like ten minutes haha:( I’m taking 14 units this semester, math being 4 units. Previous semesters I’ve taken 9 units or less so this is my first time with 14. The other classes I handle pretty well. I’ve never had a class with this much work and it makes me feel like I’m doing something wrong or that I’m stupid. Is this really normal? Any advice would be appreciated.",4,4,4.026420373618603,college
Has anyone taken two sciences?,"I have only 4 classes left for pre-requisites to nursing school, and they are all sciences. I was planning to take human anatomy and intro to chemistry together. They are both 5 unit classes and both evening classes. I also work a full time job and have two toddlers. These classes will both have labs associated.

Has anyone been able to take both and be successful? 

Also Next semester will be physiology and microbiology. 

Any advice is welcome.",3,2,4.045158799544528,college
How will my final work?,"I'm taking an online class for math, and not quite sure how the final is going to be. Will they monitor me while I take the test? Or will it basically be me having a set amount of time to finish it? Also, how will they know it I'm cheating? If they just send the test and let me do it on my own time, it seems very easy to cheat on the final. Theres a lot that seems very odd for an online course, if I wanted to also I seen I could also pay people to do the course for me. I'm not going that route, but if people want to do it then it just seems unfair for them to basically pay their way through school.",4,1,4.071466669914899,college
As a junior in college is it weird to hang out with seniors in high school?,"I just got invited to a gathering at an old friends house, but the thing is I’m turning 21 in like a few months and some of the people that are going to be there aren’t even 18 yet. Is it really weird of me to still be friends with and hang out with these people? I know all of them from an old job that I used to work at. There’s going to be a couple people that are freshmen in college but I’ll be the oldest one there.",5,2,4.073758336581566,college
Should I turn in a student for blatant cheating on an exa in a difficult upper-division course?,"Some background that I feel is pertinent to this situation:
This is an extremely difficult, upper-division, major-related course necessary for graduation at a large state university in California. It is a 400-level course. This class is so hard that the original enrollment of 65 is already down to less than 30 students 2 months into the semester. This class requires extreme dedication and persistence to pass. 
In addition to this, the class is curved; not on a normally distributed bell curve, but instead is contingent on the highest few grades in the class and how the professor feels the class is performing. 

That said, on the first exam that happened 2 weeks ago, a student who never attends lecture was googling the answers to all the exam questions on his phone during the test. The professor never saw him despite my subtle glances. I do not know the student’s name, but would recognize him. 

I am wondering if I should let the professor know. I am fairly close with him and have established a good rapport through office hours, being diligent in my assignments, and doing thorough coursework. I scored a 104% on the exam, but am worried about future exams/assignments as well as the grades of some friends I have in the class. If he (the cheater) scores exceptionally high on the next few exams/assignments, his cheating could negatively impact the rest of our grades, despite his lack of effort. I believe the class average for the exam fell around a 54%. I do not know how he scored, I just know it was lower than me. 

I’m not a “snitch”, nor have I ever turned someone in before. It goes against the elementary school mentality I have unfortunately adopted towards “snitches”, and have always thought that cheating would catch up with the individual eventually. But in this case it looks like he might get away with it to the detriment of the rest of us. I feel cheated myself and like my efforts to achieve a good grade are in vain. Why should someone who doesn’t work for a good grade “earn” one? 

I’m assuming he would likely get expelled, which I’m not thrilled about nor do I wish upon someone. 

Am I acting entitled/childish, or do I have a reason to be upset? Should I let it go and hope it catches up with him elsewhere? I don’t feel good about either option. Please advise. 

PS: if all you have to say is something about snitches being bitches or getting stitches, please bite your tongue. I know how it goes. 

Disclaimer: burner account because my main shows activity in the subreddit of the university I attend. I do not wish to be identified or unintentionally identify any other party.",10,4,4.0846842625074915,college
Tips on studying for finance,"I'm taking a financial management course and we have our first exam on tuesday. I've honestly never felt as overwhelmed with an exam before. Some of the topics we're being tested on is Present value/future value, EAR, bonds, YTM, perpetuity/growth models, NPV, IRR and ROA. I'm doing good with the math portion of it but I think it's just because I have the formulas memorized and my professor said we wouldn't do good if we just have formulas memorized. I guess I'm wondering how you really understand the formulas and how to apply them conceptually. Does anyone know of any youtube videos that cover these topics? I'm having trouble finding some. Also any tips to really understand the formulas and what they mean would be helpful! Thanks!",2,4,4.097253706951936,college
My professor just got fired. Anyone have experience with this?,"Currently a second-year Biology Major (part of a special dual enrollment program though so I am still in high school). My Current Biology lab teacher just got canned. According to my high school, his last day was Friday. He has been completely scrubbed from the university's website and all the classes he was set to teach next semester have also been taken off the registration platform. Does anyone else have experience with having a professor fired/removed from teaching halfway through the semester?

Backstory: He was just too old to teach. He seemed like he was just going through the motions and didn't fully comprehend what was going on anymore. Grading was unfair. The same assignment that was an 80 the week before was a failing grade the next. He also lost his wife last semester. At times, his speech was incomprehensible. I feel bad for him, but he should not have been teaching. I really hope it was a forced retirement situation instead of firing. He tried to teach a class on Friday and had to be escorted out. He just really didn't seem to understand. :(",5,3,4.100552318063047,college
Best major that’s not STEM related?,,20,4,4.103434262507491,college
Need advice on withdrawing from a Sociology class.,"I'm currently taking 13 credits. This Sociology class is 3 credits. Without it, I would be at 10 credits.

Basically, this is an accelerated 12 week class, twice a week on campus. I have not passed one assignment. I had 2 reading quizzes worth 6% of my grade, I got a 0/5 on one and a 2/5 on the other. Then there are 2 exams worth 20% EACH of my grade: I only scored 27/75 and I haven't taken exam 2 yet. Plus the final is worth 25%. The content is just incredibly hard as it's all essay questions on the exams.

I'm just feeling so lost because when I do the math, it seems like the highest I'd be able to get now is about a 50% and I need this class to transfer (at 75%). Obviously that isn't going to happen.

I also get Pell Grant full time and this would knock me to part time status UNLESS I can maybe potentially enroll in a class tomorrow after withdrawing from this one? Idk if I'll have to pay back the excess aid or not. 

Note: I have never failed or withdrawn from a class before. My completion rate is 100%. I've been Deans List and gotten scholarships the last year and a half also, so I'm wondering if there could be an exception?

Does anyone have any experiences with withdrawing or any advice on how I should go about doing this? Thank you so much!",1,4,4.114001392137121,college
I got a 57 on my midterm worth 20% and am also concerned about another class where I feel I did poorly on a test as well. How can I bounce back despite a slow start,"Another note, I have bipolar disorder and it’s been really bad lately m. It’s been hard for me to even sleep and eat (there was a time I didn’t do either for two days). Is there any point in going to the professors and opening up about my situation?",3,1,4.119418058803788,college
"To the people who have withdrawn from a class and tried it again at a later date, what was your experience?",What were the contributing factors that led to the decision to withdraw and how difficult of a decision was it for you?,4,2,4.12357315139638,college
"Recently became extroverted, want to learn how to find/join parties","So I'm a sophomore and while last year I was very introverted and uninterested in big social events, I've recently become very sociable and want to go out and have fun on the weekends. Unfortunately though, because I never learned how to do that as a freshman I'm a little lost as to how to find/join a party. The living community I'm at has quite a few house parties on friday/saturday nights, but I dont know how to figure out which ones are private/open or how I would join in if I did find an open one. I dont have any friends who could introduce me to parties or tag along with me to make things less awkward. Any advice on how to find a party that I'd be welcome joining and how to jump into it?",2,3,4.130378706951936,college
My options in degrees,"Hi, I’m a Cognitive Science Major (basically a mix of psychology, philosophy, linguistics, neuroscience, and computer science). I have a computer science focus. So far, I really really like programming and want to do all my major offers and more. Originally I was thinking about double majoring with Managerial Economics but now I am thinking about double minoring with Managerial Economics and Computer Science. I feel stuck because I don't know what would be the best for me going forward job wise. Any advice would be helpful.",2,2,4.132114818063047,college
Anyone feel like they like their home life better than college life?,"I mean, its not like I don't have friends or anything, I just feel like there is more to do at home. Maybe its because I go to a small school in a really small town (population of 7,000). Coming from a town of roughly 200,000 people, this has definitely been a change for me. Last year I did feel quite a bit trapped, but I now have a car on campus and haven't felt that way really.",2,5,4.132728243988973,college
What to do for 4 hours inbetween lectures?,"This year I have a few days a week where there is a huge break between some (mandatory) lectures.

Going home takes about 1h, which makes traveling back home pointless if the break is ""only"" four hours long (two hours ride total, two hours at home)

I'd like some ideas as to what to do. Nothing that involves physical exercise preferably because no showers in my school.

Thank you.",5,1,4.1357490773223065,college
Conflicted on majors,"I want to double major in criminal justice and psychology because I want to pursue the career path of a forensic psychologist, but idk it’s worth it? I would need a PhD in psychology. And idk if this career path is stable.",4,5,4.168110188433418,college
Academic Trouble,"I'm a first year in college and I really need help. I am in serious academic trouble and I need to fix it fast. First of all, my parents had threatened that if I don't make deans list, they're not going to pay for any of my college which is a B+ average. For my college, the 80th percentile is 3.6. I'm taking four four credit classes right now. Half of them are going swimmingly. I have almost a 100% in music theory and calculus 1. I am worried though in math that I didn't start advanced enough and that I'm already ineligible for a math major. I took AP Calculus AB in high school and got a 4 on it. There are three levels of math available to first years, and I'm taking the middle level of calc 1. But most of the math majors here already took the fourth level of the mid track or took the first level of the honors track. I'm now going to have to take more classes or take accelerated summer courses just to catch up because I'm already dangerously behind (there are first years in level 4 on the honors track already). I could have taken the second level of the mid track because you can bypass calc 1 if you have a 4 or 5 on AB, but they didn't recommend that 4's do it. If I could go back in time in high school, I would have busted my ass to get 5s on everything and taken many more AP classes than I did (also BC, not AB calc). 

French and Physics are my trouble spots.  My french professor used the word ""unacceptable"" on my essay and gave me a 75% for there being a few grammar errors on my essay. I'm not sure how the last test went but as of now I have a grade in the 70s range. Physics is just very hard in general. Similar to math, there are three levels so I took the first class or the honors track. But we're already in multivariable calculus and time dilation for mechanics. I currently have an A but I got an appallingly low score on one lab report and I don't how much longer I can hold on to that A. 

What suggestions do people have for me?",1,1,4.178908799544529,college
"about to finish my associate degree in psychology, want to pursue something more useful for my bachelor degree, but I have no idea what degree to pursue at a four year college. At this point, i am now thinking, is it better to have a bachelor degree in anything than nothing?","I am 24 years old and going to be finished with my associates in the middle of December. I kind of regret trying to finish my associates degree as fast as i can, because I am now realizing I need more time to think what I really want to do. I applied to some four year schools and applied as an undeclared major and now i am freaking out that i got accepted into some schools, i need to submit a commitment fee within 14 days and i have no idea now if i really want to go to a four year college especially since I am not sure what career I want. I choose psychology at first because I thought I would like to be a counselor but now I don't think I want to be. Not to mention I am not sure if I have the drive or money to go for a master degree, I hear the field is very competitive and does not enough jobs.


It seems every interest I have in a career involves a master degree and I don't want to get into a lot of debt, and master's degree are very pricey. I wish I was smart enough to study computer science, engineering, or accounting, a career that will leave me financial stable with a just bachelor degree. i thought of accounting since it seems a decent job for an introvert like me and decent pay and a bit more doable than the other two, but I got lost quickly when I tried at some accounting lessons, I am not good with numbers and fear I will mess things up fast,


Do you think its a better to have a bachelor degree in anything vs no bachelor degree? I dont want to waste my time or waste my federal aid on a major that wont return much investment. But I also feel I need bachelor degree to for that boost on my resume. I have been thinking of putting off some time for my bachelor degree and maybe work a little bit and then go back when I am sure of what I want. But I feel I will never figure it out , I feel I am having a crisis, I have no passion for anything (depression also comes into play here) I just want a decent paying and stable job that will leave me feeling ok, don't we all? especially since I live in a expensive and competitive city. but I feel pressured and so far behind for a 24 year old (soon to be 25 omg), I feel I should have gotten my bachelor's and have a starting job by now :/


I feel I am in a crisis. I am considering being a counselor, a nutritionist, a teacher, (in my state), etcc. and turns out I need a master's degree for all of that and kinda crossed most of those off my list. I lost my interest in those fields as well so I wouldn't want to be in debt and doing something I think I would end up not suited/skilled for or fail out of grad school (not sure if I am smart enough)",1,1,4.189475929174158,college
Any tips on how to still have a fun experience as a mature student?,"Basically, I originally went to university straight out of high school. I did alright but didn't really know what I wanted to do so I withdrew after two years. I worked for quite a while trying to figure it out, and long story short, I'm now in my first semester of a Bcomm program at the age of 29! It's a small program (about 15 people) and while most of my classmates seem nice, I just feel like I can't relate enough to really become friends with them. There don't seem to be any clubs that pique my interest and I've never been very athletic. I just want to have a positive experience and not always feel an outsider. Anyone who's gone through similar things?",1,3,4.207855558803788,college
I can’t get over high school,"I’m a first semester freshman and I feel like im still stuck in high school. I’ve tried to move on but some days I just feel extremely homesick. I’ve made some friends while I’ve been here who are cool but it’s just been hard for me to fit in. I was known as one of the class clowns back home but since I’ve been here I’m nervous to tell my jokes because they are offensive towards certain types of people. 

I just sometimes feel super left out as well. Sometimes I’m talking to people and they say they’re gonna go to the city on the weekend or go to a certain store and I’m just kind of there like why am I not invited and stuff like that. 

To make matters worse a lot of my high school friends aren’t having much trouble at all. 4 of them ended up going to the same university and they all still hang out and do a lot of the same stuff together. 

I just haven’t met amazing people yet or done any amazing clubs or activities. I barely find myself enough time to get my work done and sleep. 

How do I get over this slump?",2,3,4.214036114359343,college
How to move out while also attending community college?,"I am currently a CC student and I have many of my requirements done. I live with my parents and it's a very toxic environment and I don't know how much more of it I can take. I would like to move out by next fall and live with my friends. But my parents are telling me it's not possible because I will be working low-income jobs and I won't have enough time to work and go to school if I want to pay rent. It has to be one or the other. My question is, is it possible? I live in SF which is very expensive and I'll likely be paying $600-800 a month for a room with a bunch of roommates.",6,5,4.22689491065564,college
Rushing Spring as a Sophomore,"I switched schools this year and joined my friends fraternity, which is unaffiliated with the school. I found it to be riddled with cocaine and bad things I don’t want to be involved in. My younger friends joined an actual frat, and I’m considering rushing in spring, but I’m a sophomore. Is this weird? will it be worth it? I’m struggling to meet new people and make friends and fear I’ll transfer school again if i don’t,",1,1,4.228468984729714,college
Do you have time for yourself in while in college/community college?,"I currently go to a community college (I’m a freshman) and attend full time. I don’t have a job but I feel like I get so much homework that I don’t have time for myself, if anything 20 minutes a day. The professors probably think that all we do is attend their class and just go on about our life, so that’s probably why they give so much homework.

 Anyways, do you guys feel the same? I feel like a machine that just does schoolwork all the time.",4,0,4.234244447692677,college
Is anyone taking off high school experience off their resume once they graduate college?,I was thinking about it and I honestly feel taking off my high school retail experience off would help me more honestly. I feel retail was a waste of time and useless skills (now I know it can be beneficial but it seems a lot of employers don't give a crap or find the skills useful when it comes to  retail unless they are retail managers).  Has anyone else done this? did it help you find a job more? I have placements during college so it's not like I have a empty resume.,5,2,4.243098614359344,college
How important are extracurriculars in college?,"I am currently a first year CS major student. I don't have my own car and take an hour 20 min commute to school to save on money. In high school, I wasn't in any sports and really one club. Is going to one Hackathon a month enough for extracurriculars in college or am I suppose to be doing as much as I can possibly do?",13,15,4.263040743988973,college
Transfer freshman year or sophomore year?,"I'm currently a nursing student at my college and I want to transfer out of it while still being in the nursing major. I am wanting to transfer to either Pitt (in state) or WVU (out of state), depending on who accepts me and the tuition cost. I am open to other colleges as well for their nursing programs.

The dilemma I face is if I should transfer at the end of my sophomore year or freshman year. For Pitt if I transfer my freshman year I would be put in the freshman nursing class. If I would transfer my sophomore year I could try to apply for the sophomore nursing class in Pitt. 

For WVU if I apply at the end of my sophomore year I could be accepted in the nursing program as a sophomore. If I apply at the end of my freshman year I would be accepted into the pre-nursing program and have to apply for nursing after one semester of pre-nursing.

My parents want me to be accepted directly in the nursing program, but I don't know if I agree with that. I'm not sure if it's worth taking the risk of going into a pre-nursing program and then having to apply to the nursing program.",1,0,4.263422688433417,college
Question for those attending with a fmily,"I’m not sure if this is the place to post but I’m 24 I’ve got a wife, a 4 year old and a newborn and I currently working in a factory usually 8-10 hours a a day and a lot of 6 days a week. I’m wanting to attend college for nursing but I’m not sure if that’s even an option? I can’t really quit and not work. 

My question is has anyone been in a similar situation and how did you handle it?",3,2,4.264904169914899,college
withdrawals,"Hello, I am a junior in college and I'm struggling in physics currently so I was considering withdrawing, then retaking it over the summer. I've already widthdrew from two other classes, so I was wonder it it would look bad for grad school to do it again? I'm also going to talk with my advisor but was just looking for some advice",0,1,4.27101528102601,college
How to Get Into Work Mode?,"I'm 8 weeks deep in my first semester of college, and I've been struggling with getting work done on big assignments that should be spread out and done over the course of a few weeks or so. I recently had an interesting revelation about how I work: if I had an entire day to work on an essay and the essay is due in a week and a half, I drag and feel like I can't get anything meaningful done, but if I have 8 hours until an essay needs to be submitted and I haven't even started, I go into full-on work mode and get it done no problem. This leads me to believe that if I can get myself into that same mindset of ""this assignment is due very soon and it has to be done now"" even if I have plenty of time left to work on it, it would make long-term assignments infinitely easier than they currently are for me.

Could anyone provide any insight as to how they get themselves into a similar headspace in order to complete big projects?",4,7,4.301605558803788,college
Should i report other student for blatantly plagiarizing?,"I have online discussions i do weekly and i usually just take the question copy and paste it in google to get a vague idea on what to do and when i did that i found a whole article on the question and then realised another student in my class copy and pasted the whole thing word for word and turned it in. The prof. even commented back good job to the kid lol. but this kinda pisses me off cuz i try on them and get a pretty meh grade and ik this kid is gonna get  a perfect for something he didn't write at all. I hate to be a snitch and i never do snitch but i just feel this is unfair for me and everyone else in the class who actually tried. What if i just emailed the kid directly and told him what he did is unfair for the rest of us? Thoughts?

&#x200B;

EDIT: THIS IS JUST A HONEST QUESTION NO NEED TO GUN FOR MY HEAD",88,21,4.30439491065564,college
College students of Reddit:,What is something you wish you weighed more in your decision to choose the college you ended up going to?,26,24,4.314360188433418,college
Is it worth it to pay more money for a “nicer” dorm?,,14,5,4.314429632877862,college
Is it worth it to apply for scholarships if I'm taxed on them?,"I'm currently an out-of-state college freshman at a four-year university with a merit scholarship that covers 100% of my tuition, but not my rent, board, etc. From what I've heard (and I could be wrong, because I'm originally from a state without income tax), any scholarships that I receive which don't go directly to my tuition would count as taxable income. This means that, since scholarships are generally disbursed directly to the university, I'd have to pay 10-20% of the scholarship amount out of pocket to \[state in which I'm attending college\]. So my question is, if I'm correct about all this, is it worth applying for more scholarships if it means I'll be short on cash in the short term, considering I'm a stereotypical broke college student?",1,2,4.374591669914898,college
Roommate Problems,"Hey, my roommate has been stealing from me for the past couple weeks and I informed my RA of the problem. He told me that he will get with a supervisor and try to help me resolve the issue but hasn't given me a time to meet with him yet. I have proof that it was them so thats good but I'm honestly freaking out about this meeting. I went home for the weekend because I just feel uncomfortable even being there right now. My anxiety is through the roof and I can barely eat. My dad also wants to be at the meeting and I am for sure bringing him because I'm too nervous to go alone. Has anyone been in this situation before? If so how did it work out for you and what advice do you have for me going into this and what I should be asking for as a resolution?",5,14,4.3895800958408255,college
I'm studying psychology but I'm not sure if it's the right choice,"I started college 3 weeks ago now. I'm studying psychology and I think it's really interesting I can see myself as a psychologist in the future but all my classes consist of sitting in a massive room with 600 other people and listening to the professor for 3hours on end twice a day (so 6h) and taking notes. I know this is how most studies work thats just college but part of me wishes that I had to actually do more.

I'm a pretty creative person, I like making this or doing more practical things but your chances of getting a decent job with a creative study is pretty small in my country so I went with psychology, something academical that also interests me but sitting and listening for hours everyday is just making me feel sad.

Before I choose psychology I considered architecture because altough it is academical it us also very creative (half the subjects are about design and making things). The artistic character of it seems perfect for me but I'm not sure if I'll actually like being an architect in the future, I'm afraid that the study is more fun than the actual job.

Tl;DR
Im studying psychology, it's interesting and I can see myself being a psychologist but it's not artistic enough for me.
Architecture is far more creative which is great but I'm afraid that architect as a job later will not be as creative as the study.

I don't know what to do with my life, help.",6,12,4.39376991065564,college
Going away for college,"I’m planning on going to the Midwest for college (Chi, Indy, Cincy) but am originally from Long Island NY. Any tips on handling going away or preparing to live 14 hours from home?",4,3,4.399580095840824,college
Having a hard time with online Biology classes.,"Hi everyone! 

I’m currently in my last semester before I finally get my associates degree and I’m honestly extremely excited to finish something that my family couldn’t normally do. For this last semester I was needing two science classes along with my other 3 classes, the issue is, my two biology classes are online and I’ve never taken an online course before.

I’ve never experienced such a work load from two online biology classes, having to do 1010 and 1020 at the same time, doing a total of 40 learning activities that are quizzes and readings that take about 20-30 mins each. All of it needs to be done in a week and a half. Along with my other classes and working on the weekends. I honestly need some advice on how to make better notes when reading my sections. Cause I’ll have a lot of notes but when it comes time to the quizzes, I don’t do well because I didn’t have all the info I needed. It’s become really exhausting to the point that I’m losing motivation and I’m getting behind.

Does anyone have any kind of advice to me situation? Anything would help at this point.

Thank you so much!",0,3,4.400494447692677,college
What websites do you use to find scholarly articles?,"Title. I have to write a research paper and I’m literally finding nothing, but I’m probably looking in the wrong places.",5,5,4.512137966211196,college
I'm good at helping people what should I major in?,I'm a great talker and very good at listening to people and their problems. But I don't want to go to college forever to be a counselor or psychiatrist. What should I do?,13,1,4.624302318063047,college
Steps for transferring?,"I just want to preface this by saying at the time of this being posted, this is a purely hypothetical question. 

Now with that out if the way my question is, what steps should I take towards transferring to another school and when should these steps be taken? My whole point in asking this is just to give myself some sort of backup plan. I'm not 100% happy with my school right now, but I'm content. I've talked to some people about my opinions on the school I'm at and I just want to keep my options open going forward.

I know I'm posting this late at night so it probably won't get alot of attention, but any comments or suggestions will be appreciated.

Thanks :)",2,2,4.632114818063047,college
"different professor for another class marks really generously, whilst my professor is hard-handed. What to do?","Im taking an English class, and my friend showed me his paper, it had quite a few more mistakes then mine did and was (don't want to be that guy but) it was definitely inferior to mine as well.

I'm glad and happy that he got a good grade, but I it doesn't seem very fair.

What should I do?

edit: same class different professor",3,2,4.653017595840825,college
What makes you want to wake up in the morning?,,6,2,4.658040743988973,college
Going back to business or going for literature..,"This is gonna be a long one but please stick with me~

Im an 18 y/o and I started college this year. My major course is BBA which is Bachelor of Business Administration. I've never had a dream job I've wanted so when my mother suggested this course I agreed to it cus it looked alright and it made my parents happy. But it's been 4 months since college started and I'm downright miserable.

The people in my class are mostly kinda insufferable ( I'm not saying this to be uptight ) . I come from one of the top schools and my hobbies include literature and social studies. I'm a person with solid interest in politics , literature , current affairs the whole shabang. But my classmates are mostly not as interested so it's difficult for me to hold any conversations with them. They the kinda people who still deny climate crisis and think I'm crazy just for 'reading books for pleasure' .  I've had atleast 20 people give me crazy looks cus I prefered to sit in the library to read my novel rather than going with them to the nearby beach to smoke up and bunk the lectures. Plus the subjects I've been learning are easy for me but I'm having no interest in them at all. All these factors together have given me solid anxiety about college. Even just thinking of going to college the next day gives me solid anxiety and I'm counting down days till my term gets over . On top of that I have been struggling with loneliness throughout the day and my current college ends at 1pm and I'm home alone till the next day so I always feel lonely and just sleep it off  

Now I became interested in another college course called BA or Bachelor of Arts in English. I feel like it's the right course for me and some of my close school friends are in that college as well. If I go to this college my timings would be till 5pm and I'm going to be with my close friends so atleast I won't be a lonely chump the entire day. I've also started having interest in being an Air hostess and this degree would do me good for that. My parents are thankfully very supportive and won't mind me dropping BBA to start BA but I'm scared . What if I go to the other college and start hating that college as well? Should I just stick to my existing major or go for something I feel is the right course for me? I'm very afraid of having college anxiety in the second college as well if I go there. What do I do? Welp.",7,1,4.718735188433418,college
This is random but can professors see the amount of times a student searches their name up to find what classes they’re teaching? (during the enrollment period),"I think I might’ve screwed up. I had an extraordinary professor last semester. I wanted to take another class with him this semester but every time I would search his name up on the schools website for course enrollment, I kept getting one class show up and it’s the one I already took. I know he teaches more classes so I figured there might be an error in the system or they haven’t updated his schedule yet.. his classes tend to get filled up almost immediately soooo not wanting to miss out on the opportunity, I would search his name up on the enrollment website like every other day in the summertime. 
Fast forward to this semester, I see that professor in the hallways occasionally and say hi. He comes off as cold and distant, which is unlike him, he’s really nice to everyone. So, I was thinking “huh, I wonder what’s going on”..then, a lightbulb went off in my head. It never occurred to me that professors could see how many times their name/class is searched for. More specifically, which student searches them up. If that’s the case, I really fucked up and probably come off as some psycho student to this professor. Lol

So, does anyone know if professors have access to how many times their name or classes are searched up? And does it indicate which student it was? I know it’s not the same for every college but if another college has this information available, chances are, other colleges do too. 😬",7,2,4.74076065139638,college
wanting to transfer... to europe,"long story short, i was abroad in europe all of last year. the idea started as an escape but i was genuinely happy & in love with my life there. now i’m back, everything is different and i’m so sad, all the time. i’ve started putting effort into making sure i stay mentally healthy, but this can only go so far when i’m in an environment i have no desire to be in. 

i’m a junior, and have 1.5 semesters left that’ll consist only of classes in my major, which is teaching. i’m hopeful that this is such a broad subject that my luck of finishing abroad is really high. it would be cheaper and i would have a greater opportunity to get back to a healthy state of mind.

has anyone ever heard of their friends or peers doing this? it’s october break so the second my school opens back up i’m scheduling an appointment with advising to look into my options. but i’m scared they’ll try to convince me that it’s a bad idea, since i’m out of state and it’ll cause the university to loose a lot of money.",3,6,4.774313892137121,college
How do I ask this woman out?,"I (19M) am in college, and shortly after moving in, I met a woman (either 18 or 19, I know that she was born in 2000, but I don't know when in 2000) who I've talked to a few times. She seems really nice and cool, and I've developed a bit of a crush on her. I don't know her very well, so it might seem odd to you that I want to ask her out, but I figure that if I start dating her, I'll get to know her better and figure out shortly thereafter if she's my type. How should I ask her out?",8,4,4.793619447692677,college
Any ereader/tablet reccomendations?,"I am tired of carry all these textbooks do you have any recommendations for a ereader or tablet for textbooks?

Edit: I just need a cheap tablet my laptop will have a copy and the tablet will also. It's more for dorm use and during breaks to review material or to catch up on the material. Not gonna be using in class.",1,2,4.824313892137122,college
I’m going to Walmart tomorrow! What kind of food should I grab to keep around my dorm?,Honestly I’m just excited to get off campus for a little bit. So last night I missed dinner and decided that I really should have some food around my dorm. What have you pros found that works best?,12,17,4.838677318063048,college
Anyone attends or attended a Bachelor's degree program at a community college?,"I'll start by saying that even though a community college is mostly known for a way to obtain an Associate degree, very few are beginning to offer a Bachelor degree. That being said, I am thinking about applying to the Aerospace Science BS program at Broward College in Florida. I would like to know if there is anyone here who has/is attending a community colleg to obtain a bachelor's degree and how has the experience been so far.",0,7,4.896316206951936,college
Roommate plays video games and it's messing up my sleep schedule,"I'm going into my last year of college and I'm renting an apartment for my living situation. I got a new roommate and he moved in the other month so I suppose we're still adjusting to each other's lifestyles.

He plays video games and specifically League of Legends like its a full time job. Every waking hour he's playing video games at his desk and he seldom leaves - maybe only to get food or whatever. I love video games as much as the next person and I've had my fair share of Dota. My problem is that he's on a voice call with someone for every single game and he honestly sounds like the stereotypical league player.

I'm an incredibly light sleeper which is my curse to carry. As per reddit earplug recommendation, I bought Howard Leight earplugs which are great, a sleeping mask, and doxylamine succinate  . Again, I'm a light sleeper and practically any noise wakes me up. My roommate loves to play video games or he's basically on a voice call until like 2 AM. Howard Leight is not effective at blocking his fervent screams for healing and whatever. I need to be up at 6 AM almost everyday and I just cannot sleep like this.

What do I do Reddit? I had a talk with him the other day that went along the lines of how he's keeping me up at night and that he needs to stop screaming when I'm trying to sleep. He seemed pretty receptive to it, but he's still on league doing his voice calls. I'm not his parents so I probably can't change his habits of video games. I just do not want to hear a league player every waking hour of my life when I'm around my apartment.",3,8,4.908445836581565,college
Transferring Schools,I’m a freshman at Virginia Tech majoring in engineering. I have nothing against Virginia Tech but I have some personal reasons for looking to transfer schools. I’m looking mainly at UCF right now but they are not ranked nearly as high as VT for engineering. Would I be stupid to transfer there being that VT is considered a pretty good engineering school? UCF is in Orlando and I’ve read that many engineers have no problem getting jobs because the school is in a big city. I know this is really subjective but do rankings really matter?,1,0,4.9115476884334175,college
"20 years old, Will be 21 in the fall is it too late to go back and live on campus?","I’m 20, turning 21 in June and I was wondering if that seems too late to go back to live on campus at a college. I tried out physical labor and realized it wasn’t for me so I want to go back and get a degree, but I also feel like I’ll regret having not gotten the college experience when I’m older.

And also, I had great grades all through high school, but the one year I did go to college I didn’t do particularly well in my classes just because I wasn’t interested. How much is this going to affect me in my upcoming applications if I do apply?


Edit: meant 21 in the summer",2,4,4.925193521766751,college
How exactly do you start networking?,"For context I’m a math applied science major with a minor in mechanical engineering.

Networking sounds simple but in reality idk where to start and who to talk to. 

Also it doesn’t help that I kinda tanked at college. As in my grades are kinda bad. But I’m not on academic probation or anything of that nature.",5,4,4.945818521766752,college
I have a small fear that I could have a college roommate that is either mean or strange over all however many people have had good experiences and bad experiences with roommates?,,2,3,4.978306947692677,college
Debating on getting my bachelor degree online and start working for experience or continue college in person?,"I am 24 years old soon to be 25 years old and due to circumstances in my life, I never had a job which im very embarrassed about. My current schedule makes it hard for me to a get a job that will hire me since the places I went to interview told me I was not qualified because of my hours. I tried getting a job at my school but since it is a big school, all the positions filled up quickly.

I will be done with my associates degree in December. I applied to some four year schools, one online school accepted me so far. I still have to wait from the other colleges. I was thinking maybe to try working full time or part time and continue my bachelor's degree online, so I can gain some experience and money and make it easier to manage.  I am wandering if my first plan sounds like a bad idea? or is it better to go to continue education in person and have a chance to network/internship with professors, students,, would an online college be a bit isolating? especially considering I have social anxiety",1,1,5.012369447692677,college
College senior,"I'm close to finishing college. What am I supposed to be doing now to prepare for real life? I've just been living as a student and relying on my parents. I've had one career relevant job so far, but it is part time and for students.",3,16,5.017554632877862,college
AskCollege: Study Abroad Question,"Alright, first post so I’m sorry if I mess things up, but not sure where else to ask if this would situation would ever be possible.

So I’m a senior in high school and am looking at a few private schools on the east coast. I applied to my state school as a backup, and was awarded a scholarship that would cover 95% of tuition there. I’m not thinking that’s where I want to spend my four years, but am wondering if I could use that scholarship to fund a summer study abroad. 

Could I theoretically “enroll” in the university, starting this summer, set up a study abroad overseas, have that scholarship cover most of the tuition cost for the program, and then “drop out” afterwards?

I have no idea if this is a thing that’s ever feasible, if I found a loophole, or if it’s a massive a-hole thing to do, so any help is appreciated. 

Thanks!",2,1,5.020008336581566,college
How bad am I doing really?,"Overall my transcript isn’t HORRIBLE. My UC/CSU gpa is a 3.2 which isn’t GREAT but I can probably bring it up to a 3.5 before I plan to transfer. And I’m not a STEM major if that makes a difference.

The issue is that I *suck* at math. The first time I tried to take it in the short winter semester and got a D. The second time I took a course that wasn’t the same (thus not “erasing” the D from my gpa) so I withdrew, and the third time i took it this past summer. My work schedule left me no time to do my homework and I fell behind once more so I decided to withdraw again.

Now I have to get counselor permission to add the class for my spring semester. I figure i should take it in a longer semester as winter/summer did not do me any good. I’m wondering just how bad the Ws/D will look on my transcript. I’ll definitely have a letter explaining the D as I was going through a lot personally but I wonder if I can get into any of the UCs or CSUs. 

The other thing is the math is a prerequisite so it doesn’t get added to my UC gpa but I’ll still have to put it in on my application and I wonder how much bad grades in “non transferable” classes really affect your overall application.",2,1,5.070494447692677,college
I’m having trouble with returning to school,"I’ll try to keep this as simple as possible, but here goes.

I graduated in 2011, I took my GED (I was homeschooled in Florida and at the time I was having some issues so I didn’t apply myself). I have a high school diploma. I took my ACT W/Essay, bombed it and got a 23. Technically, I have a 7th grade education, I can elaborate on that further if necessary. 

It’s been almost 10 years and I’m finally sure of what I want to do. I’ve been working in tech for the last 5ish years and retail prior to that. I want to re enter school in community college and transfer out to a four year and get a bachelors in either CS or Cognitive Science. From there, the long term goal is to pursue a PhD in either or both of those fields. Ultimately I want to use AI and Neuroscience to help those with accessibility needs and learning differences. 

I recently sat down and applied, got accepted and started the process of CC. I feel good about that. What I am struggling with is that I’ll have to take my SAT by Dec. 20th 2020 to apply for March deadlines of 2021. The reason this worries me is because I took my PSAT last night and got the equivalent of like, an 1100. 

I know that I have high expectations of myself, and aspirations far beyond what that shows on paper. My plan is to continue to analyze and improve my scores, but something tells me that I’m going to have to cram four years of HS education into a year including the work that I do in college as well as SAT prep. Is this a realistic summation of what I have to look forward to? 

Any thoughts about this or advice, similar experiences or even flat out comments would be appreciated. 

Thank you for reading, have a good day!",2,3,5.074418058803787,college
Is it possible for someone to just not be able to afford college/university?,"I work a part time (soon to be full time) retail job and attending community college soon. I'd like to transfer up to university but I'm worried I'll have to pay for all of it via loans.

The college is 24k a year in my situation, and I'd have to take preprofressional classes, as well as the professional classes (forestry degree), so that means close to 4 years of school.

That's around 96k in debt. Can that be all put out on a loan? What if I fail a class or 2 and have to repeat some classes? Thank you",8,6,5.078376392137121,college
"I've found that whenever I have to finish a very tough assignment like in programming or chemistry, I cannot focus and just walk back and forth and then never finish the work on time. Help?","It goes for any hard assignment in general. But lately as the projects and labs for programming and chemistry have been getting harder since it's midterm season, I find that I cannot get myself to finish them all the way through and just pace back and forth distracted and then when the deadline has passed I feel bad. Very bad. I'm an engineering student in CS by the way. I really like this major and what I'm doing, it's just I can't focus and give into my habits when things get hard. 


My coworker knows and told me to just drop the major and classes and risk paying for the classes (I'm covered on a full scholarship here). But oddly, that made me just wanna stay here more. I still think there's hope to pull my grades up, but it's just my habits are horrible in that I can't focus on hard assignments often...

And I've found that because of this I have never really fully sat down to study hard for any of my classes. It's mainly been just completing assignments for them since they're so much and erases any thought of studying for them as well afterwards. And when I try to study I get very distracted (even when I'm in a library and put my phone away). It sucks. Thankfully my Japanese class is still at a high A but since my other classes are required STEM classes I can't seem to do as well in them given my habits..",2,3,5.123063892137121,college
Anxiety with People from High School,"I'm a first-year college student, and some people from my high school (with a graduating class of over 600 people) are in the same college I'm in (though I've never talked to most of them before!).

*Why do I feel anxious when I see people from my high school I've never talked to before?*

I kind of feel that this is a super irrational fear because:

1. I don't know these people AT ALL
2. They have nothing against me that could embarrass me

Now, note that I don't experience this fear or nervousness with people I used to talk to in high school – just the ones I've seen in some of my classes, walking around during passing period, etc.

Thanks in advance for any comments or thoughts! :)",2,7,5.146200466211195,college
"How am I supposed to major in something ""practical"" if I'm not good at math or science?","Ok, so I'm an English major because I love writing and I think I'm pretty good at it, but whenever I tell people that they tell me I'm making a mistake. They always tell me to do something practical like engineering, but I don't understand how I'm supposed to do that if I'm not good at math or science.

Any time I mention a career that isn't a doctor, accountant or engineer I get told I'll never find a job and I'm wasting my time. Can anyone help me?",16,12,5.150656484729714,college
Tablets for note-taking?,"I’ll be going into college next year and I heard that tablet note-taking can be really good for organization and easy accessibility following with some cons that it has but for those who prefer note taking on the tablet, which tablet do you recommend? I heard about the iPad and notability app a lot and also some about the Microsoft surface on a few posts.
Which tablet do you use and what pros and cons do you find using your tablet?
Thanks!",5,3,5.158978243988973,college
Confused about Greek life and partying,"This may seem like a weird and desperate post, but here goes: I am currently a college freshman interested in going to at least one party during my time here, as well as joining a fraternity. The problem is that I have no idea how to do this. I am only part of one club because there are literally no other clubs on campus that correspond with my current interests, I don't play any team sports*, and my attempts to make friends outside of clubs have fallen flat because everybody in classes and, especially, in my dorms seems very apathetic. The only places where I felt like I actually fit in were fraternities; I decided to attend the rush season events at a couple and made several friends there, but I only get to see one of them on a regular basis through a club and asking the others via Instagram etc. whether they're doing anything cool will just come off as desperate.

What should I do, then, to increase my chances of getting invited to parties as well as being offered a bid by a fraternity? Regarding fraternities, I feel like the rush events don't give me enough time to prove my value to the brothers and demonstrate that I have similar values to those of the organisation. Is there anything else that might help win them over? (Also, if you suggest that I bring girls with me to get invited, you are the blind optimist of the millennium.)

Believe it or not, I am not a party animal, I don't drink or smoke, and partying is very low on the list of reasons why I am interested in joining a fraternity. For some reason, though, I still really want to go to a college party to experience it at least once, to meet new people, and to prove to myself that I can, in fact, manage to get into one after 19 miserable years of social rejection and ostracism.

*Regarding team sports, I am considering joining rugby, which is an open club sport, but I don't know whether I will enjoy it enough to justify the time commitment (casting aside the nebulous social benefits that it may or may not provide). I used to really like skiing and alpine ski racing, but am burnt out after last ski season for several reasons and don't know whether I want to get back into it this season.",2,3,5.162612503248232,college
Anyone have experience with CapSim?,"Our company did very poorly last round as we blew a lot of money on marketing where our products didnt sell because they were not good on buying critera. If anyone has suggestions for us we could really use it. Thanks.

https://old.reddit.com/r/Capsim/comments/dgze1h/desperate_practice_round_situation_seeking_any/",0,2,5.169371762507492,college
Extracarricular activities on scholarship application?,"Hi! I’m filling out an application for a fellowship program! I’m a Computer Science major, a senior but with about 1 1/2 to go before I graduate. They ask for extracurriculars I participated in in high school/college but in high school I didn’t do sports or volunteer work. 
My main hobby was drawing and that was it. 

In college, I haven’t participated in much, most of my time consisted of my work-study jobs (2) in community college and my current part time job that I care a lot about at the community college that I graduated from (involving data management, maintaining the database of student info through the multiple platforms we use to do so for the EOF program whose goals, impact, and students I care a lot about). 

I also still draw. I am also currently a part of a mentoring program where I mentor community college STEM students during their (upcoming) transition to a 4-year, but I just started that this week.

I also am about to build my own computer.

I wanted to know if there’s anything worthwhile that I do that I could somehow list as an extracurricular or would most of this just fall under my resumé? I feel like my resumé wouldn’t reflect the interests and passions I have.

tl;dr: What counts as an extracurricular? Can part of your work count as an extracurricular?",0,2,5.205610188433417,college
Will I get weeded out of pre med because of a B in gen chem?,I’m so scared,13,0,5.21527454028527,college
There are consistent mistakes on my professor's tests.,"Correct answers will be marked wrong, and I have to email him laying it all out. He always admits the mistake and fixes it (which literally takes weeks sometimes). This is becoming an every-test thing, there's always one or two right answers marked wrong. And since his class is nothing but tests and quizzes, my grade is really starting to suffer.

In the exam I just took, identical questions that were marked marked correct in past quizzes are now suddenly incorrect on this exam. I'm not sure how to advance from here. Should I just drop the class or keep putting up with this?

(This is in addition to the fact that I've lost a bunch of points on technically correct answers for not rounding-- even though the test and the questions never say to round. Ever.)",2,1,5.216698151396381,college
Went to change my major from visual arts to general studies. Did I make a good choice?,Long story short . I was doing 18 hours a week and I to some extent am behind on classes. I had 2 classes that are 2 hours an 30 minutes twice a week. My credit hours was 12 credit hours. I drop a class and now have 9 credit hours. I submitted paper work and now waiting to see if my major will change. What do you think?,3,1,5.221350929174158,college
I need advice on dual enrollment?,"So I’m transferring next year to a four year from community college. Basically I want to get my communications degree from CSULA, but I also wanted to pursue an animation degree. Does anyone know if it’s possible to be enrolled at a CSU or UC while enrolled in an online degree for another school, for example La film.",3,1,5.225054632877862,college
What is your study habit like?,"Do you study each subject each day, like an hour or two per subject? 

Or do you study one subject the whole day and finish it until you move on to the next?",2,1,5.2282027810260105,college
What major/job is this called?,"Out of the top 12 drugs sold in pharmacies 10 of them were made from plants. Like apparently aspirin was derived from Willow tree bark or something. What major would the job for this be ? Botany? Pharmaceutical Science or something? I’ve always wanted to do something with plants like a botanist but I also like medical stuff and helping people as well. I also like environmental science. Thank you so much!

Also I would like exploring new places in jungles looking for plants to extract value from and like discovering new species that would be cool, like a plant researcher",6,2,5.247624077322306,college
The gods,"I’m doing an argumentative paper between Beowulf and Oedipus. One of the question that can be answered is, is their any other character other than Beowulf have a “less” clear enemy to fight? any thoughts guys?",2,0,5.266779169914899,college
Where do you guys usually study?,"How much work do you get done if you go to a library compared to if you study in your dorm? 

I’ve usually just studied at home and never really went to the library and all that. Just curios because many people seem to swear by going to the library since studying there is better.",26,19,5.29226528102601,college
Is dorming worth the social benefits?,"I'm a freshman at a State University that I live 15 minutes away from but I still feel very disconnected. I have an on campus job, I still have many friends from HS that are also with me at uni, but I feel like there is still something I'm missing out on. I'm not sure if it is simply the fear of missing out, or I truly am missing some sort of campus connection that many achieve. I just don't want my biggest regret of my 4 years as an under grad to be that I didn't dorm, because it seems so trivial. 

I love my Mother, but I've come to understand that there will be no bargaining with her when it comes to partying/ hanging out with anyone other then my HS friends that she has known for years. My older sister went to the same uni and dormed all four years and she messed up after graduating, so I think my Mother blames the fact that she was always on campus that she wasn't focused on school. 

I would just like to hear some advice from people who have spent their time long enough on campus to know if its really worth it. That being said I haven't even completed my first semester of college itself, so it could just be a phase. Thanks",15,22,5.310830095840824,college
"Communication Majors, I call upon you for help.","Hey, y'all. 

I'm currently considering majoring in communications and minoring in german, spanish, and russian. I'd really appreciate if the Comm majors could let me know what they think of their degree...like it? hate it? what are you learning?

Any sort of insight would be brilliant. 

Thanks!!",10,3,5.321975929174158,college
"Transfer students, are you glad you transferred? What advice would you have for someone thinking about transferring?","I’m a freshman. I think I’ve made the wrong decision about what college to go to. I’ve been looking into other schools and I think I might have found a real winner. It’s in my favorite US state, it’s not too far of a drive from my hometown, so I can come home on weekends, they have a great program for my major, and it’s really affordable. However, I’m also scared to change schools. I’m scared to tell my parents I’m not happy at my current school. I’m worried about making friends as a transfer student. I can’t help but think, what if I end up not liking this school either? What if I regret this decision?

I have a lot of friends and acquaintances who have transferred from one school to another, but I feel like these are very personal questions and I don’t feel comfortable asking them about this in person. So, transfer students of Reddit, would you be willing to share your story?",3,9,5.3310615773223065,college
What headphones do you guys like to use?,I know this isn’t directly college related but I see SO many ppl on campus with AirPods and I can’t imagine spending that much on headphones that are that easy to lose but no judgment. Anyways I’m curious what you guys prefer for walking around campus/studying in public,43,32,5.354938892137121,college
I’m trying to decide what path I should take.,"In my early 20s, I wanted to have multiple avenues in which I could fall in: my passion and something practical. I wanted a business degree and a degree photography. 

Last year I graduated with a BFA in photography a less reputable school. I didn’t do very well in this school because suffered through a lot of trauma and depression which caused my grades to suffer as well.

I still want to go to grad school but a lot of doors closed for me because of my low gpa. I found one school in the city that will accept me if I got 3.0 gpa from my last 60 credits.

Right now I’m in student in a local community college but I had to stop because I can not pay for myself or get financial aid. 

Right now my mind is going a million miles per hour and I’m just trying to figure out what to do. I don’t want for my journey to end. I don’t want to be struggling picking 2-3 passionless minimum wage jobs just to live comfortably while continuing to live with my depression.",3,1,5.540841669914899,college
What can I talk about with professor if I am not struggling?,Im currently not struggling in class and my overall grade is 95. Now what else I can talk to with professor during office hours or free time?,9,3,5.553677318063047,college
How much more stressful is college vs. highschool?,"I feel that I’m under a decent amount of stress already. Of course part of that stress is due to college apps, but I’m also taking 5 AP’s and balancing EC’s. I’m okay with this amount of stress. Usually have maybe an hour of free time a day and manage to get 7hours of sleep. But how much worse is college? I plan on going to a T50 school if that matters. Thanks!",13,3,5.556131021766751,college
Thinking about switching majors - Advice appreciated,"I’m currently a sophomore at a local community college. I am majoring in biology on a pre-medical track, and I am rethinking my career goals based on my course grades. Ever since I mentioned wanting to be a doctor in 9th grade it’s all my parents have wanted me to be, so I have the parental pressure to become a doctor but also just the fact that I want to be in the medical field and help people on a daily basis. I want to go into orthopedic sports medicine, but I don’t have the usual doctor grades. I am currently struggling a bit with gen chem (mainly redox and the concept of precipitation reactions) and am afraid of what it’ll be like if I continue on to OChem and Bio Chem. I just took my midterm yesterday and cannot stop thinking about how I most likely failed it. I just feel trapped because no med school is probably going to want me, yet idk anything else that even remotely interests me. I’ve been studying for this career since 10th grade when I taught myself all 11 systems of the body, and I don’t know how to proceed from here. Should I retake the course if I get a bad grade and possibly risk not graduating on time? Or should I try to find something else that might interest me?",2,2,5.643700466211196,college
How much more difficult do upper division business courses get?,"Next semester I’m going to take upper divisions: Survey International Economics, Business law & ethics, Business writing, and Marketing. 

Alongside with managerial accounting but that is a lower division core class. 

Tbh, seeing 300-level courses finally on my schedule is really intimidating. This will probably be my most rigorous semester yet. Really worried since I have to keep my GPA high. 


How did you guys do in your typical upper division business geneds? How much tougher were they compared to lower division classes?",2,2,5.656003706951936,college
Adding a class to a department help,"I am currently in university and I want to take Japanese as a class, but the school doesn't offer it. I plan on writing an email to the department head of language and would like some ideas on what I should include as to why Japanese would be important to learn not after someone to write the email for me just general ideas thanks. 

note: I have already made a petition for people that would like to take the class I know that they don't go far but I just want to show that there is interest in the program.",2,1,5.661362503248233,college
How do you force yourself to study when you don't feel like it?,"I've been having a lot of trouble these past few semesters getting myself to study regularly for my classes and my grades are really starting to suffer because it it. 

My first 2 semesters went great, but now in a class where I should have gotten at least a B I'm most likely going to have to withdraw from the class.",4,9,5.670714355100084,college
Is this normal?,"As a kid i always loved computers. today while i was scrolling through my old tabled i found screenshots of an old project where i had to make an algorithm for the school library. I had put in so much effort into that project and it turned out soo good. 

Seeing that project gave me a breakdown. I always loved math and computers but bow i'm not in a STEAM field at all. I'm in social sciences . I remember wanting to get in social sciences BUT I  can't stop myself from having second thoughts. i do love my subject but sometimes i wonder if this is not me or if i should have gone to STEM. I can't help but panic . Is this normal?",6,2,5.705760651396381,college
Does anyone relate?,"I'm a senior and I basically never been to a college party. I've been to bars recently over the summer but that is basically it. 

  I don't really get too down about it. I admit it got me a bit depressed my first two years in college, but have done better and don't let it get to me. Still it kind of gets to me and I want to stop getting down about it. It's hard cause I don't think the whole scene is my thing but IDK it just gets to me.",6,3,5.714186577322307,college
Can my professor move class to a separate campus???,"For one my class at a community college, I just received an email that class will be moving to a state university that is completely on the other side of town and when I registered for the class, it said nothing about moving mid semester... the community college and uni have nothing to do with each other than being in the same town? Can my professor do this??",4,6,5.718040743988973,college
Should a student take 3 courses of high level math while they are doing their generals and prerequisites? Before they pursue Bachelors degree?,"My friend is attending community college and he is doing his generals and prerequisite's he told me it's best to tackle these courses asap

Calculus & Analytic Geometry 1

Calculus & Analytic Geometry 2

Calculus & Analytic Geometry 3

He told once you pass those courses you won't have to take any high level math since those merits have been meet with the Associates Degree and are on transcripts. That way you can focus on the important tasks for Bachelors and won't have to worry about math. Is it true what he says?

&#x200B;

Thanks",4,3,5.740552318063048,college
Tips for transferring,"So here's my current situation. My major is new at my college and because of that all of my required classes are at the farthest campuses. I want to transfer to Nord University (in Norway) in a year, but I need to take 8-9 more classes (30 credits). I don't have a license yet, or my own car, or a job (yet). It seems impossible..

Any ideas?",0,1,5.742230558803788,college
I don’t know what to major in,So I have been completely rethinking what I want to major for college I’m currently majoring in computer science and it’s fun when I understand what I’m doing but I have barely started and I am already struggling. I don’t know if I should major in something new or just struggle until I get it right since I’m already in my second year of college. I would love it if anyone can give me some advice even if it’s small.,7,3,5.754163429174158,college
Computer advice??,My computer just took a shit on me and I am in need of a new one! I’m a science major (biology) and need advice for what to get?,4,3,5.792913429174159,college
How did you overcome your academic wall?,I usually just study 3-4 days before an exam and it was pretty effective until now. I am a CS major btw if that makes any difference.,3,7,5.840980558803788,college
Moving out in final undergraduate semester?,"I'm graduating in December and have the opportunity to move out with my cousin for $275 flat rate a month. There's a good chance I'll be going to grad school at the same university for a masters degree. I have already decided that once I graduate with my bachelors (December), I will move out regardless. I'm currently living for free at home and have been throughout my college experience (yes, this has detracted from my college experience overall). I have recently started dating a lot more frequently and moving out of my parents house would definitely be helpful with this.

Financially  I can make it work. Obviously its a $275/Month expense that I don't currently have so I will need to start budgeting and be stricter with what I buy, but I should be able to pull it without too much struggle. 

Any feedback or thoughts is appreciated. Thanks.",1,1,5.88945278102601,college
Majors that need to take an end of graduation test?,"I butchered that question but nurses have the NCLEX, pharmacy students need to take NAPLEX, do any other majors need to take a test like that?",4,2,5.906188892137122,college
What is your opinion on a B.A. in Education Studies?,"I'm considering going into Education Studies. I want to go into education in some shape and I'm going to study aboard, so the options are limited for international students. this is the only degree I could find in my country of choice. I would have loved to gone into a B.Ed but sadly I couldn't find international courses. I'm moving because my father lives there and I want to leave the 3rd word (Africa). This is my only real chance. 

 I'm anxious as the course doesn't give you a ""license"" to teach and that you will have to do a training course after it, which I doubt is available in international courses. I don't know if the suggested career options are even credible. I would love to do education research or policy or even go into corporate training and development. 

It's broad and can be applied in a lot of areas but,  I'd love to hear your opinion as I've fallen down the rabbit hole of ""B.A. bad, STEM good"". But I wouldn't even complete a STEM degree because I'm useless at math and I've wanted to do education anything for years. 

TL;DR: what are your thoughts on Education Studies?

Thank you so much.",8,2,5.929475929174158,college
"Want to study abroad, but unsure of cost and where to go","I've always wanted to study abroad. All of my teachers and older students have told me it was worth it/those that didn't regretted it. I've only ever been abroad to the Dominican Republic for a month and to Canada for one day, so I want to genuinely experience another country.

Some advice online has said to choose a country based on what you're studying, so since I'm undecided on my major I'm not sure what to do.

Also, how do people afford to study abroad? How does financial aid translate when you study abroad? Looking at these cost estimates is giving me a heart attack.",9,1,5.966906484729714,college
Can i go to office hours for help writing an essay? or is that taboo?,,5,1,5.975783799544528,college
What is a Communications Course Like?,"I'm looking at gen eds to take next semester, and some of my options are communications courses (one called ""Intro to Interpersonal Communications"" and another called ""Communication in Problem Solving Groups""). I'm a biochem major interested in going into research for biophysics, so from title and description these courses seem like they might be good ideas to take. From people who have taken communications courses before, what are they like? What sort of things do you learn? Do you think they'd be worth it?

&#x200B;

Thanks!",4,3,6.007045373618603,college
How do I sleep the night before an exam?,"I am usually very restless the night before an exam even if I studied and am confident I’ll do well. It’s annoying because by the time the exam comes the next day I’m running on reserve energy then I crash afterward. I’ve tried melatonin but it repeatedly hasn’t worked, Any advice?",5,5,6.021825466211196,college
Immigration Sources,"does anyone have any good resources for immigration? statistics, general information, news reports, etc.? Preferably including the impact/lack of impact on U.S. economy, and/or employment opportunity limits on US citizens due to immigration? (any type of info helps, whether the source is pro-immigration or not does not matter).",2,1,6.0248347254704555,college
Everyone is talking about 'top 100 schools',"It's all weird to me. In Canada we don't really have Ivy League. Sure, some schools are better then others for certain subjects.... but you don't really pick a school just for its rating. Is a schools rating really important in America?",10,4,6.068144910655639,college
List what college you guys go to. I want to know.,I go to Mississippi State. #HailState.,28,9,6.077404177252341,college
Advice on writing a serious-sounding letter about free speech to university administration?,"Copy/pasting parts from another post I wrote, I hope this post doesn't break the rules!

I attend a large public university in the US. Recently students on campus such as myself have been expressing pro-Hong Kong sentiment by setting up information tables, putting up informational/protest flyers, etc.

We are continuing to experience pushback from pro-mainland China students who are verbally threatening, physically aggressive (we have videos of them throwing stuff like water bottles at pro-HK students), and coordinate with each other to systemically rip down flyers (which we also have video/photo evidence of at least 3 different instances, including screenshots of them posting about it on WeChat). They claim that this is them exercising their own free speech. 

We don't want to retaliate or antagonize them for the sake of provoking them for having different views, but I would like to write a letter to my university's administration so that they can address our political free speech being supressed on their campus. How can I write a letter stating this in a mature way? Is this even a step worth taking? Have you guys ever written a letter to your school's administration before? If anyone have any experience/advice etc I would really appreciate it :)",7,10,6.092971306881972,college
Am I missing something relating to this scholarship?,"I’m currently apart of the phi Theta Kappa group at my cc.  on the school’s website I thought of going to(Jackson State), it offered full ride as long as I keep a 3.5 gpa but I feel like I’m missing something because it seems like a option more people would talk about. Are most of these scholarships raffle based?",2,1,6.09941806614123,college
Should a professor be allowed to dictate how his/her students take notes?,"There was an incident this week in my marketing research class. My professor is on loan to the college of business from the college of education, and she has implemented a learning strategy based around the Cornell note-taking method. She has designed her lecture slides for students using this method to handwrite their notes.

This is where the conflict starts. I am a marketing major and a technology-lover. I was apprehensive to handwrite my notes, simply because typing my notes has proven extremely effective for me. I gave her method a chance up to the first exam. When I attempted to study from my notes, which were basically definitions with the occasional, poorly-drawn diagram, I was overwhelmed with how unprepared I felt. The test didn't go well.

At the next lecture, I took it upon myself to create a Word document to imitate the Cornell method in a way that would work better for me. This cracked on!

That is, until the professor noticed I was typing my notes and halted her lecture to reprimand me. She gave me no explanation as to why I couldn't type my notes, simply stating ""That's not what we're doing here"". I thought her demand was particularly absurd because our 400 level class is hosted in a computer lab.

She finished off the three hour lecture with a Powerpoint slideshow about the benefits of the Cornell method and the rules that came along with it:  No typing notes & no recording lectures. It felt like the slideshow was specifically for me.

Let me know what you all think of this. I think it is completely unreasonable and unfair, and I can't see why she would be so adamant about this method. I don't understand why she feels it is right to *require* her students to take notes in any particular fashion.",12,31,6.101651862437527,college
15 vs 12 credits?,"When did taking 5 classes (15 hours in total) a semester become the norm? My parents and their roommates, who went to college in the 80’s (University of Texas at Austin), all say they took 4 classes a semester, never 5. When did this change? It seems like everyone I know takes 5 or more.",11,2,6.129267603178268,college
Does anyone know any sites with practice tests to the CSP(Computer Skills Placement) Accuplacer?,,0,2,6.130945843919008,college
Hesitation before making the commitment towards a DPT program. Any tips?,"I have plans to attend my local community college in the upcoming spring semester, and then eventually transfer into a four year university for a physical therapy program. I’ve been struck with anxiety since conceiving the idea. However, going to college is something I have always wanted to do. I have always wanted to say, “I did it!” Especially because my father (who is now passed) was the only one of our family with a college education. When faced with making major decisions like this how do you stay grounded?? What are some strategies or techniques you use to get out of that negative headspace? I’d greatly appreciate any feedback or advice of any kind. Much love",0,2,6.133179640215304,college
Scooters,It seems like the new thing his semester at my school is scooters. Like razor scooters. Everyone has one. Is this happening at anyone else’s school?,7,1,6.13586482540049,college
Withdrawal and take again or accept the D?,"My english class I'm pretty sure I just got a 0 on my midterm for fucking up real badly on something. I won't explain that part; but I calculated if I get a 100% in everything else the rest of this semester my final grade will only be a D. I'm so upset because I have all A's and I've been trying so hard and doing so good and I really want to get my GPA up from my last year, however this D is going to ruin my GPA. But this will be my first withdrawal if I do, and I know withdrawals are bad. So should I just keep the D or should I withdrawal and take the class again next semester?",6,2,6.156466677252341,college
A Few Newb Questions,"I'm a 24 year old male and I'm going to community college this spring to start acquiring credits to complete a CS degree. I have a couple of pretty simple questions... the advisor I spoke with was sort of helpful but mostly not. 

1. I half-assed some college courses when I was 19. I think I got a 3.0 in Eng Comp 101 and a 3.0-3.5 in 102. How much of a negative effect will it be to keep these grades? Would it be worth it to retake them and get the easy A? I would really rather not if I have time to make up for it. 

2. My advisor was suggesting that I take their placement test in math and try to score into pre-cal. I haven't taken a math course in about 5 years. I am going through the algebra courses on khan academy and it is coming back to me but given that I am very rusty I feel I might be better off taking the hit and starting at college algebra to ensure I do well and build a good foundation. To those who have been through it, good idea or push harder?

3. I'm able to find admissions requirements for both of the in-state 4-years I would like to transfer to but my advisor kept saying that she didn't know how 'competitive' the programs are. How much more is there to getting accepted than admissions requirements?",4,2,6.166050010585674,college
How to make meteorology interesting?,"How do you guys study for a subject that you don’t like? I’ve tried doing small sections of the reading at a time and taking really detailed notes. I just hate learning about the wind or how clouds form. 

Science has always been a stumbling block for me. I specifically chose a major that doesn’t have anything to do with science. My university requires that everyone takes a science class. I don’t mean to be a spoiled brat. I’m just really struggling and I want to do better. The professor looks at me like I’m stupid when I ask questions because “the answer was in the book.”",0,8,6.18523982540049,college
public speaking,i have 3 days to rehearse an informative speech. i’m crying because i want an A but my biggest obstacle is my actual speaking and the teacher is so strict. i haven’t started rehearsing at all..... can anyone give me any tips,5,3,6.211675010585674,college
May I ask why MSW has a higher tuition than MS and MA?,I know some people who want to get an MSW but they never could afford it because it’s so expensive. I’ve seen a few schools where the MSW is more money than to get any other Masters degree? Why would it be more money when it’s not a high paying field?,2,1,6.222762973548638,college
This may be a bit bizarre but any suggestions or tips would be helpful.,"Hey guys! So i'm currently attending a community college in Georgia, this is currently my 3rd semester here. And I am thinking about staying in California for a while in August 2020, and I would also want to transfer to another community college to finish off my associates in Computer science. With that being said, after I finish my associates in California, I would want to come back to Georgia to attend a university here to finish off my bachelors. How can I make this process work, and has anyone ever experienced a similar situation to this, as in to transferring out of state? Thank you.",2,1,6.224221306881971,college
Studying tips for MacroEcon?,Does anyone have any tips on how to study effectively for multiple choice exams? No matter how I study I seem to consistently score way below average. :/ Any tips specific to intermediate macroecon are also appreciated.,8,5,6.227531492067157,college
What's law school really like?,"I'm a recent grad with a bachelor's in history. People keep asking me, ""what's your next step?"" so I've just been telling them I'm planning on graduate school in a year or two. My initial plan was a masters in history but I'm becoming more unsure about it as time goes on, now I'm considering law school but I want to know what I'd be in for if I go that route. Can anyone tell me what the law school experience is actually like?",4,11,6.234348621696785,college
I keep running out of time on exams.,"I need help and advice on this. A few weeks ago I had to take a hard 77% on a chemistry exam I knew how to solve every problem on, simply because I ran out of time. It was so painful having to just fill in those random bubbles to questions I knew how to solve. The problem I notice, is I always catch myself double, triple, quadruple checking every single answer becuase I feel like I fucked something up if I dont. But I notice this causes me to run out of time and have to end up guessing on the last problems. Ive tried timing myself and I do fine in a practice setting, but it's like during the exam I just lose it and get soooooo anxious. How can I approach this? Should I spend more time studying? More time timing myself?",13,9,6.2491634365116004,college
What’s the difference between intramural and club sports?,,1,1,6.252786121696786,college
Essay,"The last essay in my English class is on a topic of choice, but i have genuinely no idea what i want to write about. any general suggestions or tips to help me figure out what to write about? I was supposed to submit 3 ideas on Oct. 2 but i still haven’t found a single idea let alone three. Any advice/help is appreciated.",7,1,6.25316806614123,college
Why come to class at all??,"If your 35 minutes late to a 50 minute class, why even come for the last 15 minutes?? You've already missed half the class, you should just enjoy your 50 minutes off instead of interrupting the entire class just because you can't manage your own time. 🤦",5,0,6.254313899474563,college
Cengage- Can the teacher see that you looked something up?,"Anybody who has used Cengage, can the teacher see that you exited the test to look something up. This is on my personal computer for intro to micro computer applications and all the website does is offer for us to turn it in. While I did this, I looked something up referring to the exam but honestly, I didn’t even use the tips it gave me.. it was maybe for a minute. Can the teacher see that, like will cengage tell her that I exited the program?",10,0,6.25654769577086,college
I missed a bus and I'll be VERY late if i wait on the next one with maybe 30min of being in class so I'm considering staying as it costs money and time. Unfortunately we have a take home exam that will be handed out and I have no students contact. Any help with asking this from my professor?,"I'm sorry if this sounds dumb but I always have perfect attendance and this has really got me stressed out. My professor is really kind and I'm hoping she'll send a PDF, I just don't know how to go about asking for it with out sounding like i didn't want to attend.",10,47,6.280482880956045,college
Environmental Science hoping to study Biology in grad school,"I recently changed my major to Environmental Science with a concentration in Biology. At this point, I think I would like to study biology in grad school, hopefully in a PhD program. Will grad schools consider admitting me for a Biology program even though I'm not technically a Bio major? I have to take more Bio credits for my major/concentration than most Bio students do, so I'm hoping they notice that when considering me for admission.",1,1,6.281304640215304,college
Tips on transferring to MIT from a community college,"So, MIT has always been my dream school, but due to my lack of motivation in high school I didn’t acquire the GPA nor the scores to even bother applying. I want to try and transfer into MIT next year. I know how improbable that is, and I know how much hard work it’s going to take. This is my first year of college, although I’ve taken AP and Dual Enrollment classes in high school. Currently, I have a 4.0 and am majoring in Aerospace Engineering. I snagged an officer position in one of the clubs I joined, as well as am a member in my school’s STEM club. What are some more things that I can do to have a good application for MIT?",5,7,6.287311584659748,college
Proffesors are telling us to learn from English textbook but the exams/test are in our Native leangage,"Hello, guys, my professors in college are recommending us to learn from textbooks that are written in English to pass an exam they are using presentations on our native language but when we have exam or test they are asking the definition in our native language so I'm not sure how to study the material.  So if someone has a similar situation or been in one please share how you did it!",4,7,6.309267603178267,college
I just can’t seem to understand biology like others...,I’m taking molecular and genetics for biology and just got shit on my first exam and was wondering if anyone has like very helpful resources to approach biology. I don’t even know where to start because like the last time I took an official biology course was back in freshman year of high school... Any insight is appreciated!,7,9,6.311385658733823,college
Why would you?,"Okay so I’m doing a report. My school recently took out the smoothie king in the food court and I need to do a survey. If a smoothie king was taken out and people liked it, and a less popular restaurant took its place, why would y’all want a smoothie king back? For my report, I will be talking about popularity and also health eating.",2,3,6.337485195770859,college
Is it worth it to buy expensive noice-cancelling headphones,"I have adhd, and I do get quite distracted by small sounds.  
I'm just wondering if it's worth it to buy headphones that cancel noises, because they cost around minimum 130 dollars (I live in a quite expensive country..)",12,1,6.348202788363452,college
Can I play sports even if i'm not good.,"I want to play to train my body and most of where i lived my life Football is not a thing, and I would like to try it out, do they have b Team or do you have to be really good to play?",7,10,6.35398982540049,college
Any chemistry majors hate physics,"I’m a professional chemistry major, looking to be a chemist some day. I’m in my first physics class and I hate it. I don’t know if it’s the professor or just the course itself. I love chemistry ,and it comes easier to me,but can’t stand physics. It don’t like how much I just have to imagine all the different forces. Chemistry to me just seems easier because I can imagine something that relates to everything. Do any other chemistry majors feel this way?",4,6,6.354151862437526,college
Biochemistry and Philosophy majors together?,Is this a good idea? I enjoyed orgo over gen chem and cell and molec over organismal.,1,3,6.35515880688197,college
Good Retaliation against another floor?,"So let me start from the beginning.

I stay on the 4th floor of my residence hall, the top floor. All year long, the people in the room below me (I’m just going to refer to them as 339 since that’s their room number)  have gained a reputation of blasting dubstep music from 9 pm - 3 am on random days. We stomp, they hit the ceiling back, and nothing happens we just end up ignoring it.

Last night, my roommate had two friends over to study for a midterm. And then they started playing music extremely loud. So all four of us in the room all starting jumping on the floor as a message to shut the hell up. Then, they had the audacity to come up to our room, knock on our door, and tell us to quit stomping. This resulted with my roommate slamming the door in their face. They knocked again, and I just started bumping music loud back. 

However, when I left the room later that night, I noticed the name tags on our door (so the RA knows who’s in what room) were gone. We couldn’t think of anyone else who would’ve taken them besides 339. As a result, we went down to there room and they had a bunch of paper ghosts on the door as decoration. We took all of them and put them on our door, then wrote our names on 2 of them.

Waking up this morning, the hall is littered with people’s name tags and decorations of their doors. The table at the end of the halls used for studying we’re both flipped. One person had a doorbell on the front of their door that was stolen.

So what’s the best retaliation to show they messed with the wrong floor? Obviously I don’t want to vandalize anything, but our floor is working on getting back.",12,2,6.39234630688197,college
question about visa,i graduate from school out side the us but recently i moved to usa because my family live there and i want to get into a college now my question is when i apply for a college will i apply as a international student because i finished school outside usa or as a non international student because i live in usa also will they require me to get f1 visa to study ?,1,0,6.421825473548638,college
Work study question?,"I received work study and I’m supposed to make  1,200 this semester but I only work four hours a week and at this rate I’ll be giving back 700 dollars. My scholarships cover my other expenses but I still want a new job . Should I apply for other work studies ?",2,0,6.429036121696786,college
Bad first half of the semester?,"Title. I have many group oriented classes and I have one this semester particularly where the group is very hard to work with and our first presentation went rather poorly due to 2 others refusing to pull their weight. It kind of put me on tilt so to speak and I'm struggling through this semester. I spent hours studying for many of my midterms to get very low grades and my mind seems to always be more concerned about this one specific class which is causing me a lot of anxiety and grief overall as everything else plummets as well. 

Anyone have tips on how to recover from this? I know I might be beating myself up and I have a good amount of time to recover before finals but this semester has really tried my patience and my mental well being as a whole, and I'm struggling to find any positivity here.",1,4,6.495054640215304,college
Ups and downs? How to stay up as much as possible.,"I'm in my second month of college in Belgium. And i find it hard to keep the same mindset. One day I will be like. Yes I am going to study for 5 hours and I do this easily. And the other day I don't even go to school and have a hard time studying half an hour.

I know this is probably normal. But I want to know if anybody has tips on how to stay motivated most of the time?",1,5,6.553376399474563,college
Should I skip my physics exam tomorrow?,"Hi all, I got caught up in work and other family activities this week and the next thing I know, my first physics test of the semester is in 10 hours. My professor has a *very* interesting policy where if you miss a test without reason, the 0 gets replaced by your uncurved final exam grade. But if I were to take the test, do poorly on it and get a 30, for example, then that 30 stays permanently. It doesn't get dropped because the professor doesn't drop the lowest exam grade; he only drops the first test that you miss. Missing any more tests will be given a permanent zero.  


Either that, or I can stay up all night and do a bunch of problems from our homework. I want to take the test and not use up my ""safety net"", but it's such a high risk because of the teacher's weird policy. I really don't think I can thoroughly study the content in time and gain confidence to solve problems. I dunno, I already feel like a massive failure here.",1,0,6.599267603178267,college
Tips to add flavor to a boring academic resume?,"My cc is releasing scholarship packages and such. I was a terrible underachiever, and I've only been at cc for one semester, so my portfolio is a little dry. Any tips or suggestions to boost chances for scholarships?",1,2,6.674649547622712,college
I need help declaring a major,"I like to talk about things that are happening in the world, doing research on the topic, then trying to come up with a solution to the problem. Does anyone know a major that would be a good fit for someone who has these interests? 

I wanna major in something STEM related. And preferably work from home but also in an office occasionally.
Please help with suggestions.",6,2,6.716536121696786,college
Group projects....,"So I tried to make sure that I shared info with my group before a deadline, and I thought everything was fine. I didn't want to seem like that one person that didn't do anything, so I made sure to send about half of what we needed to the group chat(this isn't the actual full assignment that we had to sent in, only sources and our thesis). We didn't discuss anything much before that point either. But...I found out about 20 minutes before the deadline that everyone thought I'd be submitting everything. Yes I understand that it wasn't a great idea to do this last minute, and that I should've asked a lot earlier. So I basically rushed to find the rest of our sources, my laptop stop working a couple times and froze, and at one point I tried to resort to my phone and my hands were shaking as I stared at the clock, I never felt so nervous about a deadline!

 But, in the end, I couldn't get everything done in time, and got it all submitted about 30 minutes late. I'm upset about it though, and now I'm nervous to see my group next class, or when they see our grade... How's your night going?",4,2,6.755575473548638,college
Advice needed in finishing my degree.,"I was attended college for three semesters before the stress of balancing school, work and the millitary ate me alive. I only had 2ish courses left before finishing my degree, but would have had to still take a full course load my last semester due to my financial aid requirements. I want to finish my degree, but would prefer to do my courses online to avoid going through the same balancing act from before. Do any of you have advice as to which schools would be a good cheap option for finishing my degree online?",0,1,6.7576703809560446,college
How does learning how to drive in US work?,"Hi guys, I'm an international student studying in the United States. Since I went to college at 17 and the driving age at my home country is 18, I never got the chance to learn how to drive (not only do I not have a license, I literally can't drive). 

I really want to learn how to drive and get a US driving license possibly, so how do you do that in a relatively inexpensive way? 

Thanks for the help!",6,7,6.792473621696786,college
how possible is it to double major in Visual Arts and something else completely unrelated in 4 years?,"i’m not yet in college and i have to make up my mind on what to major in soon. eventually, i’ll have to choose a major that can get me a job but i also just want to keep pursuing art in college. 

i’ve seen some colleges offer 5-year dual degree programs, where you can get 2 BAs from their school of art and another school. i’ve heard the Arts in college require a lot of studio hours. is it possible to do this in 4 years (not enrolling in these dual degree programs)?",1,1,6.794175010585674,college
Art College,"I'm a 2D digital artist, self-taught, unprofessional. I want to fine-tune my skills and become a professional artist, but I'm not 100% sure where I want to go to do that, or if college is even the best place for it. I have almost completely decided on Rocky Mountain College of Art & Design, but it's SO expensive, even if they say it's considerably less than most other normal colleges or art colleges out there.

I don't want to go into community college. I want to be in a college (online or a local campus- am NOT willing to travel/move) specifically tailored to artists. But it's really hard for me to find things like that, oddly enough. RMCAD is my best bet, but... the pricing and the fact that I'll have 9k to owe afterward terrifies me. I don't want to go into debt, even if it's ""commonplace"" among college-goers.

The reviews for RMCAD have been mixed, especially those from around 2014-2016 when it was under different/horrible management. Things are supposedly much better now, and the advisors I've spoken with over the last week or so have been SUPER nice and friendly. It all sounds so good, so inviting, so reassuring. Even with my cost woes, and the worry that as a for-profit school, they're only so nice because their job is to recruit students to help pay the school off or whatever.

I've never done college before. I'm completely new to it, and I'm not naive. I know a lot goes into it. But I'm terrified of making the wrong choice, or disappointing family with my decision to go to RMCAD since they've expressed worries/concerns and think I'm rushing into things. I'm also worried that I won't be able to find many jobs with this degree (I'm heavily interested in the Illustration degree, because I don't want to do graphic design or animation (I'm interested in that (and game design), but at the same time I want to hone my illustration skills first, at least)

Do you guys have any thoughts? Any alternative art colleges that I could check out?",4,1,6.794510658733822,college
Failing Math And So Is Everyone,"I'm 2 months into school, and I have no hope in passing the class anymore. The professor is no help, I've gone to his office 5 times already and I asked him if there's any help I can get he said book, tutor, practice. I've done all of those and I'm still failing. Just to add to this he literally laughs if you don't understand the topic.

My only hope now is just to take the W before November 22nd which is the last day to take the W. And then start off from the lowest math my school offers. Or take the class with another professor.

Any advice on this situation is gladly appreciated.",2,2,6.804742140215304,college
Can I teach in college under a Professor's supervision?,I am yet to get my BS degree but my current GPA is 3.90. Is it possible to teach part time (online class) without a Master's degree but under the supervision of a Professor?,6,0,6.8178902883634525,college
I’m thinking of transferring from a large urban university to a mid-size rural university. Is this a good idea? Could any students from mid-size rural universities share their wisdom?,"I’m currently a freshman at a school in one of the biggest cities in the US. And it turns out I kind of hate living in the city! I’m much better suited for a rural environment. My university has a lot of good qualities, but I feel like the fact that I already feel like I’ve made a bad choice is a big red flag. 

Good things about my school:

- only a little over an hour from my hometown, so I can go home every weekend 

- I can take public transportation to get anywhere I need to go

- the school has a pretty good reputation in the eyes of potential employers 

- the school is really well-funded and has a lot of great academic resources 

Bad things about my school:

- it’s difficult to make friends because (a) most of the students are commuters and (b) the “city personality” is very common here, people act very cold and closed-off

- my major feels like an afterthought here - the university is geared towards STEM students and I’m not in any of those programs. My major only gets part of one floor of an old building on the outskirts of campus.

- there’s a lot of crime on and near campus. I don’t like walking home at night, though I often have to because of work. 

- like I mentioned before, I don’t particularly like living in the city. 

I’ve been looking at affordable schools I could potentially transfer to. I found one that seems promising. It’s a medium-sized public university that is, by my standards, rural (the city it’s in has a population of like 60,000 and the population density is pretty low. So *technically* it’s in a city, but compared to what I’m used to, it’s not). They have a very strong program for my major. I’m thinking of potentially making the switch, but I’d like to hear from students who go to school in similar environments to what I’m thinking of switching to. Obviously, the school has great information online regarding their academics, but what about the other stuff? What’s the social scene like? How do people make friends there? What do people do for fun? What should I know before I apply? Thanks in advance for any advice!",2,3,6.8211888994745635,college
Is study abroad worth it?,"I talked to a financial aid advisor the first week of classes and she told me 100% it is. I have around $3,000 in debt.  If I go in the summer which it'll be more convenient, I could knock out a requirement or two, but tuition would be around $3,000 not including the program fees and housing( I seen some for as low as $1-3000 and some as high as 8,000, not including air flight). However, if I go during my senior year( it's allowed for my school), ill risk going an extra semester or so(which I don't mind and itll be paid for not out of my own pocket). I'm have savings too, so summer won't be all on loans. 

So, are either of these options(loans or staying at school longer) worth it?",4,2,6.843411121696786,college
"Grad school application wants me top ""Describe a study or project that you would want to investigate during your graduate studies in Communication."" Unsure how to approach","&#x200B;

I am familiar with researching reliable sources like I did in undergrad, but most of the sources I used in undergrad were academic pieces the university paid for to be available to me. 

I have a BA in Journalism and I work in tech writing. I want to get my MA in Communication. I have not gone to university for 10 years so I have catching up to do. 

Full instructions, ""Describe a study or project that you would want to investigate during your graduate studies in Communication. Cite publications and other resources that you used to develop your letter of intent."" 

Am I overthinking this?",1,1,6.852774547622712,college
If you are sick don’t go to school you greedy bastard.,"If you are sick and go to school, you will get other people sick which will get their friends and family sick, and the cycle continues. Please don’t be that person.",4,0,6.859800010585674,college
Transfer advice,"I recently went through a traumatic event. I decided to take a break from college for a semester in order to grieve. However, I think I am going to transfer in order to pursue my dream of opening a medical marijuana dispensary. Any ideas of what I should major in, or what colleges are good for this sort of thing? I was planning on transferring to Temple and double majoring in business and horticulture. I would take Stockton's online cannabis class. Also, when applying to colleges and contacting admissions would it be a bad idea to tell them that my final goal is to open a dispensary?",1,2,6.859846306881971,college
Professor cant make up his mind..,"So in my accounting course, we had a first exam.

&#x200B;

Most of us failed miserably due to the fact that he used a Cengage test, however we use McGraw Hill Connect for homework. It didn't bother me much, because its just a first exam, and per the syllabus and Canvas, this course does not use a weighted grading scale. I had a 100 percent prior to this exam.

Today, I was talking to some classmates during break about the possibility of taking Managerial Accounting (the second half of the course) during the winter intersession. He butted in the conversation by saying that im not even passing his class, and that I probably wont even make it that far. He hasn't put the exam in the gradebook yet, but I did some simple math and found that I will have a high C once he does. I tell him that the grades arent weighted so I am not worried about it. Homework for the chapter is typically 100ish points, and I could recover from the C. He says ""I guess I have to fix that, Exams are worth 40 percent of your grade"". I pulled out the syllabus and he says its a ""Misprint"". 

&#x200B;

He's a cool guy but he's retiring this year. He's a full time accountant so he really is only doing this for fun (his words) and we feel like he might fuck our grades with no sweat.

&#x200B;

Is he allowed to change the syllabus like this? To be honest I would never take a class where tests are almost HALF of your grade.",3,3,6.861165751326415,college
When is it okay to report your group members?,"I have a group project in we analyse 2 cases based on theory. We had split the group of 6 into 2 sub-groups for each case. 

In my group, there's this girl, A, who is gave shitty work. I had explained to her what her part of the theory and analysis should include, and she gave me decent theory definitions but her analyses are one-liners without any citations or supportive evidence. I knew this ahead of time and knew to bug her to do her work or change unsuitable content. I constantly highlighted what A went wrong and told her to explained what kind of evidence she should provide and how she should link it to the theory. After days of constant monitoring, she finally had decent work that could be used after some minor editing. 

Thing is, English is not A's first language, therefore I try to put up with her low quality work. But this doesn't excuse the fact that she was constantly unavailable for meetings and not properly citing her analysis (we're in psych, citations are psych 101). Friends who saw how stress out I was recommended me to report her, but she wasn't neglecting her part and had always changed her content accordingly after each of my comment.

In the other sub-group, this girl, B, had a slightly better grasp on English compared to A. She wrote her analysis with citations and supporting evidence, but she did not explain the theory nor were the analyses based on the theory. Therefore, it was totally not salvageable as it was completely irrelevant and out of topic. The other members of the sub group had only realised the shoddy work when they were doing the final editing the night before submission. In the end, they ended up rewriting B's whole part to make it in time for submission as it was late at night then and she was not online.

They left her out of the analysis part in the work distribution table, and B was not happy with it. She said that we should have informed her that her work was not usable and had her change it, instead of just overwriting her part. My friends in that sub-group did agree that they could have monitored B like how I did to A, but they are busy with their own work as well. They had thought that since B had better writing skills than A, she wouldn't needed to be monitored.

The thought of reporting B did occur, but ultimately she still did not neglect her part. She did what was assigned, but unfortunately it was of low quality.

We chose not to report A or B for group negligence, but I wanted to know if Reddit agrees with the decision or if you guys think they should be reported.",7,1,6.864093992067156,college
Need Roommate Advice. Am I exaggerating or being rational?,"I’ve been living with my Chinese roommate at university for 2 months now. It’s his first time in the US, and he came here from China to study. Since the beginning he’s had some habits that I was taught were disrespectful or rude to demonstrate around other people. I’ve never told him to stop since I assumed that these habits were probably overlooked in Chinese culture, but lately these habits have been bugging me so much that I CAN’T concentrate when studying to trying to fall asleep. I want to bring it up to him to see if he can change but sometimes I think I’m exaggerating. He’s a nice guy, and I’m sure he doesn’t intend on being rude so please let me know if I’m just overreacting.

Habits:

First, he chews gum SO LOUD. I mean I can hear this guy chewing gum with his door closed. Our room is usually VERY quite (we don’t even have a tv). We study A LOT and when he chews gum during these moments it’s all I can hear. Sometimes I can’t even study in peace because it’s so loud, and I end up having to go to the library to finish my studying.

Second, he doesn’t pick up his feet when he walks. He just slides across the room and makes the loudest noise possible. I remember as a kid walking like this and my mom telling me that I was being obnoxious and to pick up my feet. Does anybody else hate when people don’t pick up their feet when they walk? Especially if you’re trying to sleep?

Third, after he showers he leaves dirty flip-flop footprints in our bathtub and water puddles on the bathroom floor. I have NO idea how he showers. I’ve never seen him take a towel into the bathroom when showering. Also, you would think that the water running in the tub during his shower would remove the dirt from the tub floor (even if he’s showering with flip-flops on) but it doesn’t! When I walk in to the bathroom after he gets out of a shower I notice that he tilts the shower head all the way down when showering. Maybe he just soaks his hair while standing in the tub with flip flops on? Is is customary for Chinese people to shower like that and leave not mind puddles of water on the floor after getting out of the tub?

Please let me know your thoughts. I hope these observations aren’t seen as being racist. I don’t think bad about Chinese people. I just find certain habits of my roommate to be very annoying and I have no idea to what extent this is due to his culture.",5,5,6.87816806614123,college
Easy A courses,A college near me is offering esports scholarships for students. However Im not a student and I really just care about the esports program. I wanted to know what are some easy A classes I can enroll in?,2,0,6.88754306614123,college
Should I bother finding an internship at nearly 30?,"I’m a journalism minor and need an internship to graduate next semester but I’m mainly running into unpaid internships, which are basically slavery from what I’ve heard. I still have applied to several (and a few paid ones which I likely won’t hear back from) but I’m kind of regretting it now.

My advisor did mention that if I did not find an internship that I could swap the internship course for another journalism class but I wouldn’t receive the minor (journalism would just become a focus in my program). 

I just feel so behind and over it and the thought of enduring an unpaid internship seems like torture. I’d rather just get my degree and look for a job afterwards. 

Am I being an idiot?

Oh, I took a *long* mental heath break if you’re wondering why I’m graduating so late.",1,2,6.890170380956045,college
Is Financial Accounting really as hard as people make it out to be?,"Hey all.

In regards to my core classes for my business program, two accounting courses and a capstone class are the only credits I need for my business AS degree. Through out my studies, many of my fellow students make accounting look to be a course that is unforgiving. I get it, it isn't like other courses and requires studying more than just reading the material. Does it have to be made out to look like the end of the world? I went over a introductory lesson on YouTube and so far, it isn't that bad so far. I learned about the accounting equation; Assets = Liability + Owner's Equity. I know I have to study the concepts a lot to understand how to apply them. For people who took accounting or are majoring in it, how do you handle your studies? What tricks and techniques do you recommend to a soon to be business owner/manager?

P.s., I really want to understand the language of money for future preferences.",5,2,6.891362510585674,college
What should I do?,"I am currently not in college, though there's a high possibility I will be be going next fall. As of now, I am conflicted on what college I would like to apply to and what to major in; in more detail, I am conflicted on whether to go ahead and get a degree I find somewhat enjoyable (but only occasionally) with a high likelihood of employment (applied mathematics or other STEAM-like fields) or a degree in something I find particularly enjoyable, but with an extraordinarily low likelihood of employment (art degree; musical composition/animation/design). Do I chase my dreams and run the risk of unemployment, or stick to something with relatively low risks?",3,3,6.910228251326415,college
Want to take online courses to boost GPA for grad school?,"Which school online school is best to use this for.  I've been looking at SNHU, NAU, Chadron College State, GBC Nevada (not sure if it is accredited at the bachelor level or a community college - also don't want to take Spanish, I hate foreign language courses and struggle with them)

I already have a 4 year degree from an elite school.  I'm well established in my career but have become somewhat bored in it and want to take some courses to boost my GPA into the A range.

\-School must be Regionally accredited

\-Program must be at the bachelor/undergraduate level to count for what I am doing

\-Must not have jacked up tuition rates for International students online.

\-I'm also open to suggestions for Canadian schools or South African (online part time programs). As I live between there are South Africa mainly.

\-Ideally the cost should be below $10k CAD in total for a years attendance, but am willing to pay up to $13k or so (about 10k usd)

\-Courses must be easy enough that I can get A gpa.  For first 2 years of university I was distracted and didn't score to well.  3rd year B+, and 4th year A average, at a highly ranked prestigious school.  I need maybe another year or 2 of A average but don't want to stop working to achieve this.",6,0,6.912230566141229,college
My Professor Is Pressuring Me To Change Schools,"I go to a community college but I recently got accepted to a school abroad. It's in Europe but it's still accredited in the US. I thought it would  be a good opportunity because I'm studying international relations and I would improve my French. 

One of my professors, whom I respect a lot, wrote me a letter of rec for that school. He sent it in but didn't realise it was for that school until he received the confirmation. He's giving me a lot of crap about going, saying that the UCs/CSUs are better. Every time he sees me he always tells me not to go. It is pricey but it's still cheaper than another school I applied to (my sister goes there).

It got slightly worse when he found out I got accepted. I paid my deposit for the new school and already started the process to transfer. 

Everything he says makes me more insecure. Am I making the wrong choice?",12,2,6.947589362437527,college
How can I tell my parents that my grades aren’t going to be what they expected this semester?,"My parents told me that to make up for my bad semester last year that I needed above a 3.5 this semester. Long story short, it’s not going to happen. I failed 3 midterms so the best I can possibly pull out this semester is A, A-, B, B-.
As it is, those two Bs are most likely going to end up being Cs. I also need to know what my major is by the end of next semester and I have no clue. I have no idea why I’m even in college right now. I’m so lost, scared and confused.",7,6,6.949348621696785,college
"Disabled, want to go back to college.","I have student loans, but I am no longer able to get financial aid after 3 drop outs. (Was incredibly sick 2 semesters and had a close relative pass the 3rd.)

I have Cerebral Palsy. Would I be able to go back to college on disability scholarships even though I have student loan debt? I'm married now and have a family, and I need to support them. Going off a government disability check ($460 a month) is not enough to do that.",1,1,6.949857880956045,college
Calculus exam tomorrow,I have a calculus exam tomorrow at 11 I haven’t been able to study much due to other assignments and exams. Should I pull an all nighter? I never really do that but I feel like math is a subject where it can work out for you,3,1,6.952762973548637,college
I feel like I'm failing,"Hi! I'm a second year at a relatively large university, and I can't stop having panic attacks. I balance a 15 credit course load, I have a part-time job (I recently cut down to 5 hours a week because I felt too overwhelmed with 11) and I write weekly for my newspaper. Often times I'd have 12-14 hour days during the week. Anways, I can't find the motivation to do as well as I did previously in my other semesters and I can't find any interest in most of my classes. I miss my friends, and I don't particularly like the people I've met here as much as I love my friends from back home and it just feels kinda lonely. I'm overworked, yet unable to focus in my classes so I'm not doing great academically and I just want to drop out and go home. This semester is also the first time I'm living independently in my own apartment, and I don't have a car. Is life supposed to be this stressful? Am I just lazy and can't handle the heat? I just want to put it all down and take a gap. 

I'm majoring in journalism and a huge part of that I've learned is that a way to get anything from a liberal arts degree is working outside of academics, so I've been pushing myself to network and write often. Another issue at the moment is that because of that fact, I don't feel motivated suddenly in any of my classes, like I know it just doesn't matter as much as engineering or whatever. I'm just so meh if that makes any sense, I'm over it. Any words of wisdom?",1,1,6.968318529104193,college
Stats + Extra Credit,"Hi everyone! I currently a first-semester freshman and didn't do well on my first ever math midterm exam. I am beating myself up about it because I know I could have done better. I know it was my first ever college exam, and that it's okay that I didn't do great but I really don't want it to mess up my overall grade. I have 2 more exams after this (another midterm exam and then my final) and I will 100% being working hard to make up for the damage I've made. In a recent email, my prof said that he would not give us extra credit opportunities because the exam was fair. I agree with that completely, but I was wondering if maybe I should talk to him personally? I don't really have an extreme reason for why I didn't do well, but I'm honestly willing to do whatever even if it brings my grade up just a bit. Thank you!

Also if you have any advice on how to do well in stats, do let me know! :)",2,1,6.969800010585675,college
I don’t party but I want to.,"Hi I’ve never actually posted to reddit before but i wanted to see of this resonates with anyone else. 

I just started college (f. 18) and I’m loving it here. Its a relatively small to medium sized school. I love it here!! The community is wonderful and the resources are amazing. It’s also located in the heart of a city. However I hate the weekends because everyone is always going out and I’m just in my room usually watching Netflix. I don’t really have a friend group but i do have friends scattered about. They are all in the honors college so they don’t really go out either. I’ve asked a few times what people are doing to get no response. It’s a bit disheartening to be honest. I haven’t gone to many parties before but i do enjoy them. I see all my friends partying and hanging out and i feel jealous and like I’m missing out. Major FOMO. Any advice? Idek how to find parties or things to do. I don’t have a fake and i refuse to get one btw. 

Thanks!!",2,5,6.971663436511601,college
Does anyone else tend to do better in classes with professors considered “bad” rather than “good” ones?,,4,5,6.9719064920671565,college
Horrible A Level Stress,"I expect this will probably be a common post on here, but I honestly feel like I'm about to have a breakdown. I take maths, biology and business A level. I'm a month into my second year (year 13) and I feel so horrible. I am permanently stressed, to a point where I find it hard to eat because I feel sick. I'm finding maths really hard and I'm trying to get help and ask questions but every time I get stuck on a question I get into this endless spiral of stress where I start to worry about my grade, my mocks, what university I'll end up at, what if I fail what if I have to retake what will my parents think. And it's the same with my other subjects, I feel like my heads going to explode and I just don't know how to carry on. My predicted grades are A*AB, but I have no idea how I'm going to manage it, I feel like I'm completely running out of time and there is so much to cover and revise. I feel really stupid, I feel like I'm going to fail everything. I don't even want to get out of bed anymore, I hate this. I'm having to do 5 hours of work at school that I actively hate doing, then I get home and have to do another 5 hours of revision and homework that I struggle with and hate, and then I have to worry about my personal statement and my courses and which unis I should be looking at along with any more tests that I have coming up, and then I have to try and sleep which is a joke in itself. How am I going to cope? I have phases of being able to manage but I feel like I'm drowing and I have no idea what I'm doing with my life of what will happen. Anyone have any advice or any similar experiences? Is it just me? I just don't even have the words to explain how shit I feel and how much I feel like this stress and work is breaking me.",2,1,6.984591677252341,college
Unsure of what I should do,"Hi everyone, I’m new to this subreddit :) but I was hoping someone with experience could help me decide what to do as I am just stuck. 

So I’m a Lebanese American student living in the US and am thinking about going to the American University of Beirut for my premed and hope to major in biology. Afterwards I would like to go back to the US to finish my studies in an American medical school. 

My main reasons for wanting to go to AUB are that I miss my country, I have family living there, and it has a better school ranking than the uni in my town. 

The biggest questions I have regarding this are: 

1. Would an international degree even be considered at American Medical Schools or would it just be disregarded? 
2. And is it better to just go to a university here in the US even though it’s not as good as AUB? 

It would be really helpful if I can have some viewpoints/opinions, thanks!",0,1,6.993804640215304,college
Is it ok to not go to my exam if I've emailed and called my professor 3 times?,"I've been sick this whole week and have been throwing up. I wasn't sure if I'd be better by my exam day (tomorrow/Friday) so I emailed my professor yesterday (Wednesday) asking if I can reschedule it to Monday. I also explained to him that I have a doctor's note too explaining my illness. I emailed him 2 more times and called his office phone but he didn't pick up nor respond. If im physically unable to get out of bed and he doesn't respond, is it ok to miss the exam?",5,1,7.027242140215304,college
How do I stop being an easy target for creeps?,"I (F17) got into university a year early and I thought it would be great. Before this I was homeschooled so maybe I’m a little naive about this sort of thing. The study is fine and I’m not complaining about that. 

But f*cking hell I think I must have a neon sign above my head that says EASY TARGET. In the 8 days I’ve been here I’ve been approached by 3 men all 10+ years older than me. 

One followed me for over 20 mins and refused to take no for an answer. Even when I told him my age and that I didn’t want to give him my number...
I only got out of that because I had to go to a lecture.

Is this normal? Idk what to do. I’m a late bloomer in this - I don’t even want a boyfriend my own age... 
Any advice on how to deal with this?",15,24,7.033330103178268,college
People with panic attacks/anxiety disorders... how did u get through this?,I’m having a major panic attack right now. I almost threw up during class during my midterm. i just ran out the classroom and i haven’t gone back in for like 25 minutes. i don’t know if i can go back. the thought of people seeing me come back and see how sick i look makes my panic attack worse. walking makes me dizzy.. talking is making me gag. i feel like a failure. i need help/advice. i don’t want to fail school because of my illness. i feel like it’s getting the best of me.,13,3,7.037496769844934,college
How to stop trying to be perfect,I got an 80% on my statistics and I feel like a failure. It’s a really hard test and most people get that grade but I’m so disappointed in myself. Every time I don’t make a 100% I always feel bad. I know this is a bad mindset but I can’t help it. Any advice?,3,0,7.049973621696785,college
I’m taking a class that’s not at all related to my major. Will I be okay if I slack off a little bit?,"It’s a long story but basically rn my major is history and I’m taking one history class this semester but I’m planning on going into psychology, specifically a research track, with a high possibility of grad school.

I feel like I know the answer here but I’m hoping against hope. Do I need to keep my GPA up regardless or does this class seriously not matter at all?",2,1,7.052936584659748,college
Can schools require you to attend 5 events in order to graduate?,Does any one else’s college not allow you to graduate UNLESS you have attended 5 school events? Lmao. That are approved educational events. I work full time at a law firm AND go to school full time. I wanna know if this is normal.,15,3,7.067543066141231,college
Should I notify my prof about my excuse for not having work completed?,"This title sounds bad. Bear with me.

I’m a junior in college. My prof is a pretty cool dude, and it’s a graphic design class. He assigned us to have three art boards done in class for homework Tuesday night (it’s a 6pm class).

well my car was broken into yesterday morning while I was at work before school and my laptop was stolen. I absolutely HATE with all my being not having my work done in time, and I always do. But I’m really dreading the idea of using it “as an excuse” for not having my stuff done today, since I’ve been dealing with all this garbage. I have no other computer I could have used either.

I hate feeling like I’m using an excuse in college and I never have, but this was just a really awful thing that happened and I’m embarrassed about it. But I have my files backed up for the project, I just wasn’t able to fully complete all of them. Should I mention it to him before class or just take the L?",3,2,7.094753714289378,college
help,"It's the middle of the school year and i've been slacking off for a minute, but now realizing things like  grades are real (yes, i know, please don't judge). In my 4 class that I have registered for, I believe the lowest grade i have is a 29% and the highest is 40%. I only have 9- 8 weeks left of class do you guys think it may be possible to bring my grades up to 85% by the end of the semester? I don't know if i should start dropping or really get into grind mode. I just need some words of wisdom right about now.",3,3,7.123955103178267,college
"People with ADD who made it/are making it through college, how did you do it?","Because right now, I feel at a complete loss. I am taking easily the hardest course load I have ever taken in my college career (2 CS courses+Calc 2, and a few GEs) and I feel completely lost in most of them. I feel like I am constantly in ""just make the grade"" mode, causing me to fall behind in actually learning the material by taking shortcuts on homework because I can't focus on anything. As a result, I know for a fact that I am going to get exposed when midterms come around this month unless I change something.
Anyone else have any experience with this?",7,19,7.125540751326415,college
What to study?,"Hello,

I am currently deciding whether to study in Luxembourg or Belgium. I am interested in studying at KU Leuven in a Bachelor of Business Administration program in English and in Luxembourg there is an English Bachelor in Computer Science at the University of Luxembourg. I am interested in both programs, and I find courses from both degrees quite exciting, but would like to ask you what would be better in terms of job prospects/opportunities and studies/student life in general in your opinion?

Thanks!",0,2,7.143434269844934,college
What Sorts of Jobs/Careers Can I Get With a History Degree?,"Hi, I’m a third year university student and I’ve just been having some really bad anxiety about what I can do after I graduate. I’m most interested in working in the museum field, but I’m not sure if I will be able to get into the field due to there not being many museum-related jobs out there. I’ve been high-key stressing about this and hopefully someone on here can help shed some light on this.",19,5,7.152091677252342,college
How do I deal with not having a party life?,"I'm a sophomore pre-med student at a school reputed both for its social scene and its tough classes. I'm generally happy with my day-to-day life: classes are going well and I'm passionate about my clubs. I don't have a ton of friends, but I have a few that I love.

Between studying for classes (like orgo :/), clubs, and decompressing alone (I'm an introvert and I have a single, so I spend a fair bit of time in there), I don't have a lot of time left over. Here's the thing, though: even when I do have the time, I can't find people to party with. I don't have a friend ""group"" so much as I have individual friends (some of whom don't get along with each other). My friends have their own groups, like their suites or people from their sororities, that they party with. Sometimes my clubs have party-like events, but these are few and far in between, especially because most of my ECs are academically focused. Most Fridays and Saturdays, I just study or watch Netflix because all my friends are busy with their own groups, going to frat parties and tailgates etc. When I try to make plans with them, they usually are already busy or have plans to go to the event with other people. The first weekend of school, I stayed in my single and got a headstart on my class readings because I had absolutely nothing else to do. On Sundays, I study with my friends. That's the issue -- I feel like I'm viewed as more of an academic friend than a ""go out and have fun"" friend. I admit that I probably caused this myself -- last year I stopped drinking for a while and wasn't as inclined towards going out.

How do I deal with this? It's gotten to the point that I dread Fridays and Saturdays -- I prefer the hectic and stressful Sunday - Thursday. I also have a bit of an issue with social media (I spend too much time on it). Because I go to a party school, my feed is constantly flooded with party posts from Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Even on Tuesday nights, I often see people around campus heading to parties. I've considered a couple different solutions, including joining a sorority. However, I know a sorority is incredibly time consuming and don't want my academics to take a hit. I have friends in sororities, but I'm still concerned that I won't really fit in because I'm pretty quiet. Anyone have any ideas for what I should do? All suggestions are welcome! Should I just accept that my weekends are going to be pretty quiet for the next few years?",7,7,7.155517603178267,college
Are teachers required to have office hours?,"I’m taking an online class but the teacher works on amours and I live close by—I’m only taking the one class online because I work full time and can’t take both my classes in person.

Every teacher I’ve had so far has had office hours and I hear other students talk about it so I took it for granted. One teacher I had said he isn’t regularly available for office hours so he makes himself available by Skype call. Anyways I assumed office hours are a given, a requirement for teachers.

This teacher flat out says she’s not available for any office hours EVER, and when I requested a phone call or some other natural language substitute she said it was “a professional boundary she isn’t willing to cross”. Bitch are you retarded? How is a basic element of teaching and learning—access to your teacher for natural communication—not only *not required* but downright inappropriate????

Do I have any recourse here? I can’t find ANYTHING online and I’m working on contact administration at the college.",5,0,7.170911121696785,college
How do I complain about a prof?,"Ok so I recently finished a test and the grades came back. Instead of a curve my prof gave out partial marks on a multiple choice formatted test (25 questions, 4 different options) worth 25% of my mark. I don't feel that the partial marks system is a fair or an accurate representation for us. How and who should I complain to.

Note the average came out to be 69.5% with the partial marks system. No idea what would be the average without it.",13,0,7.186443529104192,college
*HELP* need to break housing contract,Hi everyone!! I’m desperately trying to break my housing contract for second semester of school. I was just curious if anyone has done this and has any advice as it can be tricky. I have plenty of reasons I can include including incidents of being a target of bias in my specific residence hall with people drawing repetitive penises on my white board and nobody elses (gotta love maturity)! Any and all advice would be super helpful. Thank you (:,6,3,7.195008343919008,college
Can you still pass the class with failing test scores?,"So for my first exam in Chemistry I got a 59/100 (59%) I'm not doing any health major and no matter how much studying I do. I don't care If I get a D. 

I'm always asking questions and going to my teachers office.",17,6,7.2210384365116,college
First Day of Class but I think I need to switch! What do I do?!,"I've already withdrawn from a bunch of classes this semester (because I decided to change my major and they don't overlap). I signed up for an online 8-week SPEECH course to salvage what I can and this is the first day of ""class"". The course description simply said I need ""access to technology"" and that was the only difference. So I assumed I could present my speeches using the webcam on my laptop - because that is what many of my friends did with their speech classes at other institutions.

HOWEVER, I go onto blackboard today to check the syllabus (which was NOT accessible until this morning) and my speech class is making me 1) download specific software to use 2) is assuming I have a seperate webcam that I can move to another place 3) find at least 8 people to fill a room to present my speech to and I have to pan the room for proof 4) I also am required to clearly hold up my license to the camera which I understand why but it just makes me uncomfortable for some reason.

I had no idea it would be like that because literally no one I know how to go through that. I do NOT have a separate webcam. I'm an older student so I can't really randomly find 8 people to give presentations too. We will have speeches every week.

If I knew all this, I would have saved myself a lot of trouble and signed up for an in-person class.

I already have 3(!!!) withdrawn classes this semester so I need to decide if I want to drop the class like now. But registration is closed and I don't know if I can sign up for a different class - I am embarrassed if I wasted this semester. What should I do?!",9,3,7.240702788363452,college
I just dropped out,"I caught some freak virus that doctors believe to be the flu a few weeks ago and I missed 2.5 weeks of class. At this point I already failed one class because my professor has an understandably strict attendance policy and I was waaaayyyy Behind in all my other class to catch back up and still manage to pass.  I also had a job to pay for my apartment and I think I might have to quit that too.

The weird thing is, I’m okay with my life falling apart. Everything was stressing me out and I guess this virus is my body’s way of telling me to chill. Best thing to happen to me all year.",11,15,7.255112510585674,college
My lecturer is not very bright and doesn’t explain why someone in the class is wrong,"Basically today it was one simple question which said order these in size from lowest to highest , it was bit nibble byte kilobyte megabyte gigabyte , we told him the order which is the way I’ve just write it out and he looked at the answer on his iPad (because he doesn’t know himself) and said it was wrong , now anyone that has studied a computing level of any kind even like a mini after school or college group would know that a nibble is 4 bits but when we told him this he said no it’s wrong and wouldn’t explain why it was , because he didn’t know the answer himself he just goes by the answers on his iPad and can’t explain them . This happens often such as when he said ram stores software which is incorrect as it stores instructions for the cpu to decode . I might sound stuck up but when the lecturer is being taught by a class of 16/17 yos that are supposed to be learning from him it gets to a point  where you begin to wonder how they even got the job.",7,5,7.256628714289378,college
How to tell a roommate to shower without hurting him?,This is not for me but for a friend. They met around a month ago so they are not so familiar with eachother.,3,7,7.262554640215304,college
"Got a 60 on my first Economics exam, and I don’t feel so good?","I’m a sophomore in college, I just received my first failing grade of the semester. I’m really disappointed in myself and feel discouraged. Is it possible to recover from this? I know I wasn’t the only one who failed the exam but knowing I could’ve done better; bothers me a lot. Is there ANY advice you can give me? I just want to do better :/",2,2,7.271570843919008,college
Do Grad Schools/ Post-Education studies notice if you re-took a class you previously withdrew from?,I currently have 3 w’s on my transcript and am tempted to drop another class of mine. I am re-taking one of my previous classes that I got a W in and am planning on re-taking this class during another semester. Would grad/post education take into that account or would they just see the W’s?,1,2,7.308353251326415,college
Should I transfer colleges simply because of its size?,"So I’m a first semester freshman at a really small liberal arts college(1,500 students) and I love so many things about it, except it’s too small. The professors are amazing and genuinely care about me, the academics are great, it’s in a great location, it’s very diverse, the student body is nice etc. I just can’t get past the fact that it feels like high school 2.0.

Everyone knows everyone here, all I have to say is “do you know X” and odds are, they’ll know the person if they’re in the same year as them. It’s tiresome walking through the campus and knowing 25% of the people you walk past, it feels like everything I do is being watched by someone I know and causes me a lot of anxiety because sometimes I like spending time alone and I feel like people will be judging me for being alone. Also the people are pretty dramatic and petty here, lots and lots of pointless high school drama. I don’t care about who slept with who or who gave you a dirty look, it seems pointless to me. I loved the first two weeks of college because I was constantly meeting new people, but now I pretty much know every freshman I see, at least by their face and I probably know a decent amount of information about them. I’m not sure if I want to spend the next four years barely meeting any new people.

Also I feel guilty saying this, but I don’t like that there’s no dating options. As a gay male, I’ve never had the option to date openly and not worry about discrimination, so I was looking forward to that in college. However, there’s such a small handful of gay guys here, so I feel lonely and isolated.

I plan on finishing out the semester and working my hardest, I’m just really conflicted if I’m making the right choice for the right reasons.",19,47,7.334475936511601,college
What note taking software are you guys using?,"I am looking for a note taking software (one that works with a drawing tablet). I tried one note, write and xournal till now. My problem with them atm is that they can't cut or at least crop pdfs in app. I want to do my homework with the app. That is why I want to cut my homework assignment so I could make space in between to do calculations and put more text there. Copy and past doesnt work that well because I have to do alot of math and in most apps you can't deal with matrices. My OCD doesnt let me use the snipping tool as it seems I can't align it and I want to avoid converting them to image and then cutting them.

So what note taking apps are you guys using?",9,6,7.343885658733822,college
Grading,"What percents constitute which letter grades on an A, B, C, F grading scale?",5,3,7.349973621696785,college
My (F24) Professor (M45) is hitting on me?? Help?,,4,3,7.352612510585675,college
How to deal with overly chatty roommate,"So I’ve moved into a dorm with an associate I knew from High School. Everything has been going great it’s just she talks so much. I told her that sometimes I just don’t feel like having a conversation and want to chill. She disregarded that and continues to talk. I try to put earphones in to ignore her but she just taps on my shoulder and continues to talk. One of my friend suggested going to a study room for a few hours, but I don’t like the fact that I have to leave to escape her talking me to death. What should I do???",5,13,7.370494455030119,college
How to avoid careless mistakes,"I’m currently a freshman in my first semester taking honors physics, chem, and calculus. I’ve prepared thoroughly for my exams and worked hard throughout the semester, but I always seem to underperform on the exams. I leave the exam feeling really confident about everything but due to silly mistakes, my exam grades have been dragged down to 85-90 range despite feeling strong on all the material on the test. I know these exam scores aren’t bad and they still put me in the B+, A-, and A range for my hard stem major classes, but how could I eliminate silly mistakes to boost my grades?",5,3,7.377878714289379,college
Dunno what to do?,"I already have 62 hours in my community college and I'm looking to get a degree that's worth something. A marketing degree would push me back 3 years, but with a graphic design degree I would finish quicker. My only problem is I hear that graphic design isn't that good of a major vs a business degree.",1,1,7.400957417993083,college
My college has put me on leave - how should I occupy myself for 9 months?,"20M, was a first-year student at a college in Asia. I've recently been put on leave of absence due to mental health concerns, and will not be on campus for around 9 months, after which I'll most likely have to repeat my first year. I'm wondering what I can do to occupy myself gainfully during this period. Should I work? Should I try to learn something new, and if so what should I learn? I'm really lost now and I need a plan before I descend into a further mess.

One of the things I really want to do is some kind of research, especially in the humanities and social sciences. But are there opportunities in these fields for someone outside a university?",0,1,7.406478251326415,college
Weird mix of double majors?,"I am currently midway through my sophomore year and I'm thinking about declaring my major!
I want to do biology (because I want to have a science-based profession) and philosophy.  I think a humanities and science would look good on a resume because it would show that I'm willing to challenge myself with two unrelated subjects. 
Is this a good idea? Will this wild mix just screw up my brain?",13,17,7.407438899474563,college
How hard is it to raise my GPA up after getting a D in the class?,I’m a freshman and I have 1 class where the prof is just horrible. He didn’t teach well at all. I’ve been talking to other kids in the class for help and none of them know what’s going on so I’m really worried about my grade.,3,1,7.428515288363452,college
How does one get hookups during college?,"So I’m about to get my degree and I’m yet to have sex

I join clubs, events, parties, bars and expand my social circle. Yet while all my friends hookup in front of me, I cannot get lucky.

I try to improve my social skills but whatever I do, I fail to make friends or get girls because I’m being myself. What makes a girl hookup with a guy",8,0,7.460297695770859,college
Will just a few classes at UoP hurt me?,"I’m looking into taking the general biology series, genetics, + the A&P series. I’m not good at test taking so I thought it might be a good idea. I’m generally really motivated and enjoy school, so I would actually be a good student and not just glide by. But I’ve heard bad things about it and don’t want to hurt my educational career. I’m planning on going to graduate school at some point. But with these classes I’m just gonna transfer them over to a different school. 

Mistake? Want opinions.

Edit: online",4,1,7.500563899474563,college
I have a question,"If i had a conditional offer based on my
predictive grades; however, if i didn’t meet these predictive grades but my grades were still above the requirement is that ok?

 Im applying foundation.",1,1,7.504232880956044,college
Software engineering or something else?,"Hi, I'm about to sign up for college and I'm not sure is it better to study software engineering or something like law, economics. Can you help me please. I like both and I'm very interested in both but I don't know what is better for the future(I mean higher salaries and things like that).

Btw, debt is not a problem.",2,1,7.535425010585675,college
What are some note-taking advice you’d give to someone who started College two months ago?,Because I totally didn’t start college two months ago 😐,5,2,7.539024547622711,college
Too much caffeine,"I spent most if my day today (my day off) doing homework, readings and studying. I drank an ok amount of coffee and it’s barely hitting me right now at 1:25 am :-) have 2 midterms back to back at 8 am. Halllppp😭has this happened to you? How do you help yourself to sleep?",4,2,7.619637973548638,college
My Dorm Is Driving Me Off The Goddamn Walls,"I'm in a double, my roommate drops, so I'm in a double-turned-single. There are two beds in here and it has to stay that way. In order to keep paying a double, I must keep my room ""roommate ready"", meaning someone could move in here at a moment's notice. 

My bed is squeaky as shit, and I mean squeaky, there's something wrong with the boxframe. I put in a work order for them to fix it, whatever they did make it *worse*. They're not coming to fix the same problem again. Getting in and out of bed wakes my neighbors up. Moving an inch wakes me up. I say fuck it and move all my shit to the other side of the room. 

I tell people this story, guess it spreads. RA comes in pissed off wondering why I'm on ""Bed #2"". I explain, she says that I am financially responsible for ""Bed #1"", the sides are assigned, and I could be paying all sorts of fees if they catch any of my shit on Bed #2 during inspections. 

Now, AFAIK inspections are always given to us in advance but I just... hate living like this I have this stress on me 24/7 like someone's gonna bust in and kick me out because my stupid IKEA bed spread is on the wrong bed! But I can't sleep on the other one and I need my sleep! 

I know I'm very very lucky to be living alone but I'm frustrated! Advice appreciated though I don't know what anyone could possibly recommend",8,3,7.637357880956045,college
Advice for a Freshman?,"Hey all. I did ok in Highschool, but lately I haven't been so doing so well. I feel like a horrible student. I actually studied for about 5 hours this week and completely flunked a major exam. It feels like on my exams I especially do poorly no matter how much I study. My grades will probably average to a B- or C+ this semester. I feel like I'm so lazy, but I am actually trying, showing up to lectures, taking notes, etc. Any Advice?",2,2,7.651050010585675,college
Feel so stressed,I recently started my first year at university and my stress levels are extreme all the time. My friends constantly ask to hangout and I always feel bad and agree because they make me feel guilt my if I say no. I don’t know how to balance my social life. I’ve missed so many deadlines got a 40 percent on an exam got bronchitis my first three weeks at school stay up until 3 am most nights and always rush in the mornings. I need some advice on how to balance life to be less stressful and also I’m pre med so I’m extremely anxious if I don’t have perfect grades I will be doomed for the next four years and won’t get into med school.,1,2,7.6619296402153045,college
Rip might fail a class over a connection issue,"Turned in my final for an English class about 4 hours before the due date, I didn't think anything of it as I finished it days earlier. I checked later in at midnight and it didn't load, I'm not sure if the connection was timed out or not but rip. Emailed my professor explaining the error, checked again later and the email didn't send properly, so resent that. Hopefully, I won't fail a class I was really confident in over something like this if I do it's my fault and I understand but still rip I hate myself. Has anything like this happened to yourself? What would you do in this situation, I was taking this at a separate community college so I don't really mind the money, but retaking a class like this would definitely suck.",1,2,7.687786121696786,college
Please help me relearn how to simultaneously go to school and work fulltime,"Hey everybody. I'm an older student (28) who returned to college last year and am due to graduate in May with my first bachelor's. I've been incredibly fortunate in the past year to not have to work because my partner's job combined with student loans was enough, but lately money has been tight and I've had to pick up a job again. I'm on my second week of work combined with 5 classes (though one is fully online) and I am already struggling to keep everything together. 

I'm looking for any tips that you have on how exactly it's possible to maintain my grades while also working 30+ hours a week. If it matters, I'm an English major, so my schoolwork is lots of reading and writing and therefore hard to do in the 30- or 15-minute stretches that I get for breaks. I just feel like there's not enough time to sleep, work, and do school--but I know that I did it when I was younger, and I know people do it every day. I just need any help you can give before my GPA totally tanks. I'm feeling extremely exhausted and frustrated.",3,5,7.687901862437526,college
5 years to graduate,i will start college next semester but i got a question it will take me 5 years to graduate because i have to take 1 year foundation and 4 years for the degree now i just want to know if i take classes in winter and summer so in total of 2 semester will that make me graduate 1 year earlier,3,3,7.693688899474564,college
Wanting to go back home from college,"So I’m in my 7th week of classes in college and about 8 weeks of being away from home. The college I go to is 13 hours away from my home so it isn’t exactly an option to go back whenever I feel like it. I had a feeling I would become alone when I got to college. My roommate is a friend from high school but I always had a feeling she would end up forgetting about me when she made new friends. I can’t be mad that she wanted to venture out and meet with new people but I am pretty hurt that she doesn’t talk to me anymore along with our other friends back home. Now she has found a new group of friends and is ignoring us. I just feel so alone and want to go back home but my parents have 3 other kids to take care of and can’t just drop everything and spend money they don’t have to get me home. I’ve always had trouble with making friends, always been very shy and not that social. When I do try to make friends I always feel very awkward and things never work out. Not to be “I’m not like other girls/most people” but I do have a very hard time fitting in. The school I go to has a lot of stoners so that’s pretty much what everyone here does, including all my roommates. They get high and party. I regret coming to this school, it’s very much not for me and I really want to move back and be closer to home. I also feel even more sad since our campus has a power outage and it’s going to be out for a week, on the bright side no classes but it also leaves me to be bored and stuck with my thoughts. Any advice on what to do?",11,2,7.709036121696786,college
Final exam due date was set a day after the course was scheduled to end (distance learning course). Submitted assignments due that night thinking I had the next day to do the final and then the course locks...anyone else miss a final? I’m just accepting that I’ll be retaking this next semester.,,0,5,7.721304640215304,college
Did I smell weed or poop?,"(Note: I've never used or smelled weed before. People tell me it smells kind of skunky so that's all I really have to go off of.)

Starting a week or two ago, I've noticed a lingering poopy-farty smell in the boy's bathroom. It smells sort of like a skunky fart mixed with the slightest hint of mint? I guess the obvious answer, given that I was in a bathroom, would be that I was smelling poop & fart with some lingering floor cleaner or something, but could this also be the smell of weed? 

The reason I thought it might be weed is that 1) the way my dorm's air circulation works is that air passes between rooms, so there's a strict no-smoking-anything rule and I'm guessing the only rooms that are isolated from the rest are the bathrooms, and 2) I'm in a legal state (well technically not for another two months but it's basically legal).",8,4,7.742103251326416,college
Am I setting my expectations too high despite doing well?,"I’m doing fine in college right now. I have a strong GPA, studying what I love, and am trying hard to get my name out there with on-campus positions. Yet there’s a problem with a few programs that are highly competitive that I really wanted to get into, but couldn’t.

I can’t help but feel inferior to my peers on campus who are in all of these cool programs I wanted to get into but got rejected from. It makes me feel like I’m not good enough. I get that rejection from jobs/competitive leadership positions happens all the time but it feels like it happens to me literally every time. 

Not only that but when I know someone who applied for the same position and gets accepted it just make me feel jealous. I feel like I can’t speak to them without at least THINKING of the fact that they have this position I also wanted but couldn’t get, once again making me feel like I’m inferior.

Yes I know there’s a ton of students in college (I went from a high school of 200 people to a campus of over 15,000 students) and I won’t always be considered “the best.” But I hate how jealous and inferior I feel over my PEERS doing things that I wanted to do but didn’t get the opportunity because my application was weak or something like that.",0,2,7.748607880956046,college
Little sleep,I just think it stinks that my sleep schedule is pretty irregular right now and my college likely doesn't even care. Yeah well how am I supposed to perform well if I don't sleep?,3,2,7.7630407513264155,college
Sooo what’s everyone dressing up as for Halloween??,,8,2,7.7751240846597485,college
My first seven starting weeks of this fall semester have been kind of hard. Any advice?,"So I'm in my second year of community college and I feel like I've had an awful start to this semester.  My last year I made the dean's list in both semesters and I did great. But this year, it seems like nothing's gone right, I love college though.  I made a 67 on an essay in my anthropology class because I procrastinated.  And I'm dreading getting the grade for two short assignments I wrote in my history class because I feel like I did those wrong too.  I did just get a 94 on a paper in my English class and I made an 86 on my first math test.  I've just been having major procrastination problems this semester and I can't figure out why, I don't know what's wrong with me.  I'm staying up late and getting up early and I'm having killer mood swings, if I'm not highly irritable or silly, then I'm feeling guilty and worthless and I'm crying.  I'm just looking for some guidance because I feel alone even though i know I'm not and I just don't know what to do.",2,1,7.790725936511601,college
How do you do it?,"I have been studying my ass of at university. I am in my second year of chemical engineering and I am taking four very difficult classes and I am failing two of them. I am getting stressed out to the point where I am having trouble functioning or even waking up in the morning. I study probably around six to seven hours a day after classes. Part of that is doing all of the goddamn assignments that they give us. I sometimes take breaks to eat, call my parents, and exercise. I also try to get out and meet friends at school clubs and other places but I am trying to do less of that. I also watch TV to relax but I try to avoid that now too. This has mostly been since I had five exams in four weeks getting two B's, a D, an F, and a TBD but I tend to choke at exams so I don't know. I was a straight A student in high school and I barely studied and now I work my ass off just to be able to be here. How does everyone else do it? I am in a limbo where my grades say I don't study enough but I get so burnt out that I just can't study anymore. I am leaning towards cutting all extra-curricular activities but I also don't want to hate my life. My dad has told me that I have no passion for studying and that I just need to focus on learning but it is very difficult when your grades suck.

So how do you guys do it? How do you balance school and social life? How do you pass classes and have a life that you don't hate?",7,6,7.796304640215304,college
Associates or BA in psychology??,"Hello Reddit. 

I want to go to school to become a mental health counselor. I was curious if I should get an associate's degree first or just go straight for the bachelor's. 

Which would be best?
Its going to be a little tough for me to go back to school, I have a young child. But I'm doing this because I want a career, esp in mental health. I plan to take the course online.",8,1,7.800100936511601,college
"""Sleep, Grades, Social Life. Choose 2."" Is there any actual truth to that?","Ideally I don't want it to be. I have a lot of problems balancing my life but its because of my own procrastination problems and lack of motivation, not because of the college itself. But now that I am a sophmore and the workload is increasing... I'm not so sure anymore. I'm sure good time management could do wonders.",8,5,7.814811584659749,college
Starting school,"Howdy! I'm an anxious 24 year old living in Florida and I have absolutely nothing better to do than become a failed alcoholic, or maybe just an alcoholic (can't fail if I never tried!). Anyway I'm not wanting that for my life.
 The only thing that makes sense to me would be to work for the state in our national forest. It's beautiful, the job seems useful, and I would much rather work by myself (if you live in Florida and are sane, then you understand this). 
 So, reddit, help me. You can be one of the dominoes that creates one of the most awarded conservationists this world over. Ok, maybe that's overblown, maybe i should take some psychology classes while I'm in college. So how in the wide world of sports to I get in way over my head and start college? 

 And if you have any answers pertaining to forest conservation or wildlife management or anything surrounding that area, I would be so grateful and forever in your debt, and the debt of whichever one of these education rackets I'll fall prey to in the near future.

May your dreams be fulfilled and all of your suffering cease",1,1,7.819175010585674,college
How to fall asleep before a big exam day?,"I always have trouble falling asleep before an exam day. 

I'm literally considering smoking a bowl before bed to help me fall and stay asleep Lmao but I know its probably counterproductive. 

Any suggestions?",5,1,7.824128714289379,college
What can you do to maximize your college experience in the final year?,,5,3,7.826524547622712,college
had someone tell me you can’t rly get a job with majoring in psychology?,"idk what he meant. he said his sister majored in psychology & so did his best friend and both were struggling to find jobs, i wanna go into psychology because i wanna become a psychiatrist but everyone seems so weird about majoring in psych & i don’t get it??
can someone tell me it’s not true?",7,5,7.82898982540049,college
Good Minors to support Physics/Astrophysics major?,I'm planning on dual majoring in Physics and Astrophysics. The field is my passion though it doesn't really have a lot of employment especially at the B.S. level. Are there any minors that would compliment my major while also giving me better marketability and job prospects? I was thinking Computer Science.,2,5,7.829661121696786,college
Are there any californian community colleges that offers multivariable calculus during the winter break?,"https://www.cuesta.edu/student/documents/transfer_center/2018_Winter_Intersession_List.pdf

I was looking through this list as well as other sites but was having no luck.",1,1,7.834093992067156,college
"I just failed an o chem exam, not sure what to do next.","Just got back a big fat 36 on my second exam (made a 71 the first time). I didn't feel entirely confident on this one, but yeah LOL. There's a possibility I can replace the grade with the one on my final, but it is a cumulative final so I shouldn't put any hopes on that. My average with my homework is a 67. I feel like the biggest dummy. It, genetics, and cell bio are all collectively kicking my ass one test at a time. I am a junior and kind of behind on my major so I don't think I should drop it, but damn yall. Maybe I should try tutoring, or drop it. I don't know. I've never failed something so bad before I almost didn't believe it when I saw it.",2,1,7.836975936511601,college
I need help please,I need a list of a ton of colleges emails. If anyone can help than thank you,4,0,7.846316214289378,college
Is it possible to declare income independence from my parents in order to get more need based aid?,"Howdy, folks, I am currently a 19 year old sophomore student at a well-to-do Patriot League school. My university has been giving me about a 30-40% discount rate of their gigantic comprehensive fee, but I still currently take out roughly $30k a year in private loans in order to be able to come here. Need based aid is based off of parental income which seems unfair to me because my father makes a large income but does not save or help me financially in college any way whatsoever. I am functionally independent of my parents and have not been a long-term resident of my household since I left for college in August 2018- my parents do pay my auto and health insurance though and I do go home for Fall and Winter break. Would it be possible to declare some sort of financial independence from my parents so that way I could not use my parents' income and qualify for more aid? With my current situation I could probably afford basic health and auto insurance (partly through the university health insurance plan) if it was necessary since I have a job on campus. If this isn't possible, is there a way to explain this need to a financial aid officer without sounding like someone trying to make the system unfair?",3,6,7.848318529104192,college
That class that makes you want to change your major,What class has made you want to change your major? I’m a bio major and cell bio is making me rethink my whole life. Just thinking about the class makes me sad.,26,11,7.863179640215304,college
How does this grading scale work?,,10,2,7.869776862437526,college
Juror summons while in college,Yeah of course I got summoned in the middle of the semester. Will they accept a postponement to winter break because of school?,5,1,7.870286121696785,college
Dream school but debt,"Planning to transfer  into this school highly ranked and really known for its engineering that I want to do. But 60k in debt by graduation is it really worth it. At my current college, it’s not competitive and no one really cares about school and it really brings me down when I do group projects cuz I don’t want to settle for less. Should I just suck it up 🥺",2,3,7.872346306881971,college
"How many hours a week are you putting in between work, school, etc?","As in, hours where you physically have to be at whatever place it is, not counting homework. 

For me it’s:

6.5 hours of class on campus

10 hours in my research lab

24 hours at my job

So it totals out to 40.5, of course not including study time because I don’t really measure that and it varies. 

For myself, this is borderline unsustainable and pretty difficult regardless. It’s not that each of these things is super stressful (in fact lab is not at all, it’s super boring, and my job is also quite slow paced) but it’s just the simple fact of having to drag myself to each of these things and stay there for a grand total of 40 hours a week that feels like so much. Waking up early, driving, being there, the whole nine yards is just a taxing concept for me and has affected my anxiety and depression. 

What are your hours? How are you guys holding up?",9,8,7.8799851957708595,college
Should I ask a cappella groups if they need my voice part?,"Don't know if this a right sub to post this but since it's related to the social aspects rather than musical and this sub is clearly larger than r/acappella so I hope I'll get more advice here. TL;DR below.

Long story short, I'm currently a sophomore and every single semester here I've been auditioned for a cappella groups on campus. Somehow I'll find one way or another to fuck up my auditions and the best result I've ever had so far was a callback to this group last Spring, which happens to be my favorite group as well. I'm really determined for my 4th (and hopefully last) audition with this group next Spring because singing and performing is a part of my dream college life. Maybe I was influenced by *Pitch Perfect* and *Sing It On* but I really enjoy a cappella-ing. 

So here is the problem. I came to the recent concert by my favorite group to get to know more about the current-them. They had 13 people performing on stage and I believe that's all they have currently, and the guy number was 7. I happen to be a tenor as well, so I'm afraid that they won't need any more tenor (or any male voice) in the near future until their senior tenors graduate. Should I ask them if they're looking for a tenor next Spring because I may go nuts if I fail the audition again (provided that I kill it at the audition), or it's just so rude to ask that question?

Thank you guys for your time. Any advice helps!

TL;DR: Favorite a cappella group has 7 guys over 13 members. Don't know if they still need a tenor in next audition. Should I ask them or it's just rude to ask?",1,1,7.912577788363452,college
College Gap Year (is it worth is),"My family is moving out of state and want me (Sophomore) to come with them, but now I’m left with three options: 

1. Stay in state
2. Move with my family, and pay $20,000 total for out of state tuition
3. Take a gap year to work, travel, etc. 

Is a gap year worth it? What are the pros/cons? Any advise/help?",2,2,7.927438899474564,college
"If anyone needs an online copy of MGMT 11th edition PM me, I don’t need both",,2,20,7.9396379735486375,college
How do you do it??,"I’m 25 F, going to community college online. I’m pre-nursing and I finally am down to the last four classes which I have to take in person. They are chemistry, anatomy, physiology and microbiology. I’m working 40 hours a week At a challenging job and have two toddlers. I have a mortgage and 2 car payments (not even fancy cars) so I can’t just stop working to focus on these classes. 

I’m feeling so defeated and I’m not even starting them yet. I live in Cali and it’s super competitive here for RN nursing programs, I need to get an A in everything basically. 

Is anyone else in this situation? How do you do it all without having a nervous breakdown?",5,2,7.946304640215304,college
Is Statistics hard for people who don't like math?,I may sign up for a trip 7 week online stats class to get it out of the way. I also barely passed high school algebra and geometry. Is this going to be way too difficult for me?,6,2,7.968955103178267,college
how to not procastinate and focus on the task at hand,I have an essay due in 6 hours :/,1,2,8.002311584659749,college
Does my university have access to the .edu email they gave me,I’m not sure how much ownership I have over my university account and how much prerogative does the ink have in accessing it. How private are my emails?,4,1,8.030587047622712,college
Can’t choose a future,"So it any first semester in college and I am no where close to finding out what I want to do. I have a passion for arts like music, animation, and drawing but I also have a deep call to do something noble like being a police officer, aerial firefighter, or police helicopter pilot. Each one fulfills something within me in some way but none quite feel right. I have done music for the majority of my life and it sounds beautiful to create and share art Especially Jazz but I don’t think I’m good enough and the jobs dodgey. While things like diving and flying in a noble role like a rescue diver or police helicopter pilot are risky jobs that can cause death or traumatic experiences. If anyone has any advice I would appreciate it. Some other context if it would help would be in my free time I play video games, fish sometimes, I use to build models and I like to create little stuff we’re it be on my 3D printer or something. Thanks for any advice.",3,2,8.043399547622712,college
Need to transfer but scared of outcomes.,"So I'm in a dilemma and I really need advice.

I'm currently a sophomore at a Top 30 school. I've been so extremely depressed my entire duration here. When I was applying to college I really had no idea what I wanted to do in life. But after a while in freshman year i kind of figured out what I really want to do. So basically, I hate my major right now, but my school doesn't offer what I want to go into. Aside from that, some horrible things happened here to me and literally just having to be on campus I get anxiety from just thinking about my experiences. 

So right now I've decided I just need to leave this school for the sake of my sanity because I have become so insanely depressed and anxious to the point of being suicidal. I'm looking into transferring schools, but there are some problems.

The main one being that I don't want to go to a school that is ""worse"" than my current one. I know that probably sounds so stupid, but I recognize every school has their own. I just want to make sure that I will be challenged academically and not shooting myself in the foot by moving ""backwards"". So that already limits the schools I can apply to, which is anything I feel like is equal or better than my school. Which brings me to my next problem, all the top schools have extremely low acceptance rates for transfers. And I'm not even gunning for anything like harvard or yale or stanford etc. 

Andddd this brings me to my third problem, the program I want to do is pretty of niche, and a lot of the schools I would have an ok chance at (i.e. have slightly higher acceptance rates) don't have my major or anything remotely close. And if they do, it's very competitive. Like at one school, I think the overall transfer rate is like 15%, but for my major it's 4% which is ridiculously competitive. So at this point there are only 4 schools that I think would be academically challenging for me and also offer my major, and they are all extremely competitive.

Here's where I need advice, if this whole transfer thing doesn't work out for me I literally don't think I could last any longer at my current school. I'm scared I'm going to do something stupid to myself just because college is making me so insanely miserable. Should I take a gap year or something? Should I just force myself through two more years? Should I just get off my high horse and apply to some safety schools?",4,4,8.062925010585674,college
Unsatisfied with my advisors plan to graduation,"I’m a non traditional student I’ve been in school on/off for various reasons since 2013. I’m tired of being in school and I want to hurry up and graduate ASAP. 

I met with my advisor to figure out how I can graduate by spring 2021 as this is my first semester at a big university . I’m a junior right now. They were basically telling me that because of the availability of my classes and because I work around 20 hours per week it’s pretty much not going to happen so she set up a plan for me to graduate in fall of 2021. 

I decided to make my own plan and would like some advice on if it’s feasible. The most credits I’ve taken in one semester is only 13 so this is going to be a change for me.  

I’m majoring in Operations and Supply chain management and would like to have a career in some aspects of a global supply chain so I chose my courses based on that. 

[ here is my plan](https://imgur.com/gallery/Xi0ZCaZ) if I could get some feedback on if I’m going to be over loading myself I’d appreciate it!",6,3,8.081848621696786,college
Would you recommend business or law school?,Hi I’m 19 and at community college but am considering going to law school in the future but have also thought about going into finance. Which career in finance earns the highest pay and has high status? What is being a hedge fund manager like?,8,3,8.08455695503012,college
How to not fall asleep in class?,"I most frequently fall asleep in my 9:30-11 class mainly because it's in the morning and it's not a very hard class.

I almost most frequently fall asleep in my 1-2 pm Computer Science class, but I'm not exactly sure why. It's not in the morning, and I'm also a CS major (the CS lectures generally range from interesting to boring, but it isn't not like my first class). I'm also falling a little bit behind in this class, so recently, I haven't been able to understand what's being taught in class. Could that be a reason for why I fall asleep so often.

I also sleep at like 2-3 AM every day and have to wake up 8 AM on some days. I'm definitely working on my sleep schedule. But any advice on how have as much energy as possible when experiencing little hours of sleep the night before?

EDIT: Does active note-taking help you stay awake or not in lectures?",9,1,8.086721306881971,college
Roommate trouble,"I moved into the room and it was empty the first two weeks until my university assigned me a roommate. He farts in the room while I’m there, always wants to have a conversation, and I know this may seem absurd but locks our door all the time like even when I’m in the room often leading to times when I rush out to pee in a hurry and leave my keys I’m locked out. He also has people over in the room at 9:30 in the morning I haven’t even washed my butt geez. I don’t like the farts or the constant need to talk (I’m a senior taking 18 hours he’s a sophomore taking 12) I’m too busy or to tired to talk. And I don’t like having to fidget with my lock all the time to enter the room especially in a dorm with less than 40 people and security and an RA on desk. (In the 4 years I’ve been at school I’ve never had stuff stolen and the only time I’ve locked the door was over break) it’s getting to be too much especially since I was in the room first.",6,0,8.088978251326417,college
I’m in my third year of college- never had such a workload from a professor. Suggestions,"Hello everyone. I’m in my 3rd year of college. I’ve always kept straight A’s all through my college education. I take online courses full time and work full time but I find it really important to prioritize my school work. I’m a very independent student. I never feel out of touch with my school work and have never really felt overloaded on my homework unless I took a speed course. 

This semester I feel like I may have gotten the most inconsiderate professor I’ve ever had. I say inconsiderate because she loads us up on so much homework, extra assignments, and quizzes that I actually have mental breakdowns every week over her class alone. 

Her school week consists of only 6 days. An example of my course work each week(6 days) is 2 individual chapters of work.. included in that is: 1 LearnSmart each chapter... 91 questions each... that’s almost 200 questions. Then we are assigned 1 extra “assignment” to demonstrate the work for each chapter at 30 questions each with sub parts to each question... that’s 60 questions not including the sub parts. Then we have a quiz for each chapter with 20 questions each... that’s 40 timed questions. She added a research assignment that is due in 3 weeks without letting up on any of the work for the next 3 weeks. She told us we have to “find time between assignments to do that”. No thanksgiving break even though my school is closed. If we want a break we have to “double up on assignments for a week or two”. Which I find absolutely impossible considering I’m already drowning in my work from this class. 

A couple things to add: 
* She does not open up chapters ahead of the week’s assignment. So you cannot work ahead in this class. 
* I contacted other classmates privately and we are all in agreement that this workload is impossible, but we don’t know what we can do about it.
* Yes, I do take other classes which makes this matter even worse. 

Has anyone ever been in a similar situation and can give advice? Can you go to someone at the college about this or is there anything I can do?",7,7,8.09111945503012,college
Is it worth getting a masters in computer science?,"I'm debating on whether to sign up for the accelerated masters program or not, I don't really know the benefits of getting a masters",2,8,8.099718992067155,college
Need Some Advice,I am currently a Finance major and taking my 3rd year Business Finance course. I bombed the most recent exam and need 100s on the next test and Final to score a B to pass the class. (B is the minimum to continue). You can only retake this class once. What happens if I can't pass it the 2nd time? Do I have to choose a new major?,9,1,8.109556955030119,college
Do you need to come close to the maximum word count for an essay?,"Ok so I kinda fucked up. I have a 2000 word essay due at midnight that I completely forgot about for my first year seminar. It says that it ""should not exceed 2000 words"". Does this mean that I can get away with writing less, or should I still come close to 2000? We need to put a word count at the end of the paper.",3,4,8.112496769844935,college
Deciding between an apprenticeship and college,"I am 15 and have a few months until my GCSE’s and I have a passion to produce hip hop music. I’m really dedicated to it even though i’m a beginner but afraid I won’t make it anywhere in the industry and be able to live a good enough life. A few different colleges and companies came to my school today to talk about different apprenticeships and college courses and I was pretty convinced by the description of one of the colleges Music Technology descriptions but I keep saying to myself “what if you do this course and it doesn’t take you anywhere”. So with that being said i’m thinking of taking an apprenticeship like a lot of other people in my year but if I do an apprenticeship I have no idea what field of work i’d like to go into. I study: Media, Computer Science, Geography and Art (which was automatically picked for me) and obviously the compulsory lessons: Maths, English and Science. I’m pretty average at best in all of my subjects apart from English which I perform pretty well in. I’d just like some advice from people on what I should do, this is kind of scary. - Keenan",0,1,8.115934269844933,college
Really struggling with college science,I’m in my first year taking chemistry and I knew it would be hard but I didn’t think it would be *this* hard. Everyone I know including me study for hours for one exam and still end up doing poorly. Does anyone have any tips? Does it get better? This is *hopefully* one of the last science classes I ever have to take because i’m majoring in English and Stats.,3,1,8.123966677252342,college
"Missed a daily quiz, should I email?","This teacher is sweet but very strict. Her syllabus says there are no make up quizzes at all, but I'm not sure if it'll be a waste of time asking. I overslept and missed her class.

I have asked and was able to make up a quiz before in her class, but that was because I had a job interview around the same time and told her a day prior. My grade isn't the best in her class, and I want to make up the quiz to keep my grade up but should I email asking or is it not worth?",0,1,8.157519917993081,college
23 year old Transfer Student,"I got into a four year and will be transferring from my community college in the fall. I'm wanting to stay in the droms, but didn't know if I am too old for that. Thoughts?",4,3,8.161316214289378,college
What computer or other gadgets do you guys find useful?,"My kid is heading to college next year and I want to be sure she has the tools needed to succeed for 4  years of school.

That being said, what stuff do you guys use or wish you had for a degree in the medical field? I am thinking a good laptop or maybe a chromebook or some such?

I never went to college so no personal experience. lol All suggestions are welcome!",7,1,8.16561019577086,college
Why is college worth the money?,"Title sums it up. I am a high schooler unsure whether college is actually worth it. My older sister is swimming in student debt. Every one from family to teachers are saying that college is worth it, but I'm not so sure.",7,2,8.168179640215303,college
How to avoid stressing over the future??,"I feel like any time a prof mentions a future project, exam, or due date in general, I start to freak out and stress about it, even if it's nowhere near being due. How do deal with that and fix this?",2,1,8.175517603178267,college
"Wanting to take a year off, but I know it will cause issues","Hey guys!  I’ve been in college since 2015.  I’m feeling beyond burnt out.  I’m 25, almost done with my associates (2 more months and it’s mine).  I’ve been wanting to be a Physics teacher, and there are plenty of options, but I have lost all motivation this semester.  Nothing because of anything bad, but 4 straight years and I’m done.  My plan was to start the Bachelors program in the spring, but I feel like I would rushing in way too fast, so I want to take a spring semester and summer off to just work, save tons of money, and refresh myself for next fall.  I’m fighting a mental battle though of not being done with college by age 25.  It drives me insane and brings me down.  I’m always tired, always looking for an escape.  I’m constantly stressed, and always frustrated with school, even though I’m doing good.  I don’t even care about learning at this point, I just care about getting stuff done quickly.  Also, my mother constantly harps on me for not having a “full-time with benefits” job even though I make good money working a part time job  and constantly compares me to my sisters (even though neither of them have finished school or are close, I am the oldest by the way.) and this also kills my motivation.  I feel like I need a year off to collect myself, refocus, and demotivate.  Good idea?  Bad idea?  Sorry if this sounds like venting, it’s just something that’s really weighing down on me.",0,0,8.179279177252342,college
Classes and Extracurriculars Balance,"I’m 18M and I just started my first year of college. And I’m already way too deep in everything. I’m taking 19 credits and I’m in four clubs. I’m looking for ways to fix my schedule and make it not so work intensive next semester. I am very stressed right now. 

Classes: 
Mid-Level Calculus 1: This class is a joke. I just didn’t take calc 2 because they said with a 4 on AB, that wasn’t a good idea 
Honors Physics 1: This class is kicking my butt. The labs are a nightmare and it’s so hard. It’s one of the worst classes in STEM that you could take. 
Intermediate French: This is class is really hard. The concepts are hard but I got a C on an essay because I made a handful of grammar mistakes. The prof demands absolute perfection, and it stresses me out. 
Music Theory 1: This is the highest level a first year can take (Intro and Pre1 come first). But it’s still super easy. 
Concert Choir: Not that hard but time sinking at 2 hours every Wednesday 
Secondary Voice Lessons: I take the bus to the music school once per week to have a lesson 

Clubs: 
ROC Players: This is the main theatre troupe. I’m in the main show, which sucks up a bunch of time. 
OBOC: This is a theatre group that just does singular numbers. It’s a lot more low key than OBOC. I’ll probably drop it next semester 
Swing Dancers: This is my favorite club and I choose to add more time to it because I want to learn the solo routines 
Jugglers: This club is also really fun. I don’t have to go every week, but I go when I can. 

Here’s what I’m planning on doing next semester: 
Mid Level Calculus 2
Honors Physics 2
Writing (required prerequisite class) 
Theory 2

For clubs I’m going to keep them all except for OBOC and hopefully I can get into the advanced chamber choir, which is the same time commitment. I just want to do so much but I want to have my load be manageable.",0,1,8.1816634365116,college
"The mid semester burnout is hitting about now, how are you handling it?",,18,19,8.204151862437525,college
Should i go to class even though i have a cold?,i’ve had a cold for 3days now and today its been the worst. i barley got any sleep last night & today i have a lecture and a lab. i’m planning on missing the lecture (even though i only have 2 absences left) but getting notes from a friend and going to the lab. does this make sense? or should i attend both?,2,1,8.210714362437527,college
"I might be failing for the first time ever, how do you cope with that?","I'm usually curious and glad to learn new things from new classes. I would enjoy studying and getting into the material.

Now, I'm not feeling motivated. I don't feel interested in anything medical related like I thought I would. The anatomy tests are confusing because the teacher grades them in these weird ways, like I don't think anyone has gotten an A in that class.

Everything I learn is making me panic a lot about my health. I just keep thinking ""what's the point?"" if I'm always getting the answers wrong even when I find the right answers.

The blood drawing class felt the same way. I keep panicking every time I do something wrong. I had a major panic attack doing the practical exam for that. I'm sure I've failed that because of my nervousness.",3,2,8.23924445503012,college
Do you actually pay attention is class? Tips to not zone out?,"Since high school, I've had a really bad habit of zoning out while note-taking. It's gotten even worse in college to the point where I go to lectures just to write what the professor is writing on the board, but my brain is weeks behind in content. I don't understand how kids can take notes and at the same time, answer the professors questions. I literally can't even write fast enough. 

In high school, I was able to learn the material right before the exam (a few days of intense studying) so it wasn't a big issue. However, in college, there's way too much information crammed into exams that I am so far behind.

Does this happen to you, and do you have tips to pay attention and stay on track in college classes? Especially in science classes.",12,5,8.2594759365116,college
"4 years or 5 , 1 year foundation","should i go to a high ranking university but it will take me 5 years to graduate because i have to take 1 year foundation or should i go to a low ranked university but i graduate in 4 years
in case you wonder am 18 years old",1,1,8.264545380956045,college
Wish I could take more classes,"I’m an undergrad, CS major
This semester I really wanted to take Physics to get it under my belt (interested in gamedev) but despite all the willpower in the world it just isn’t working out. Grinding literally 24/7 is a plan for failure and you slowly start to slip behind if the courses have high workload.

I don’t see a good opportunity to take this as an undergrad, which makes me mad because I’m genuinely interested in learning lots of things, and from what I understand we don’t really get to have a 2nd undergraduate education, people just say “pursue a masters” etc.

Does anyone have a mental solution to this paradigm?",0,1,8.272925010585675,college
"Required skills and abilities to study Physics, Chamistry and Biology?","Hi

I just finished a bachelors in a humanities course, and I'd like to do one in the sciences too, and see what master I'll do from there on out. I""m very much hesitating between the 3 sciences. I guess physics interests me the most, but I'm rather abysmal at maths and logical thinking, while chemistry seems rather interesting too. Biology seems like the least interesting of the 3 for me personally, but I feel like it would be best suited for my strengths (I don't have too much difficulty remembering mountains of information). Also I'm sure I would learn to like Biology if I actually studied it. But that's just an educated guess. Could anyone knowledgeable on the subject run me down on the difficulties and easy parts of each study, or one of the three studies?

Thanks in advance.",7,1,8.286246769844933,college
Anyone ever suffer from random crisis?,"Has anyone here just had a crisis where you stop caring about your appearance, grow your hair out, and just feel a bit lifeless? Not necessarily suicidal, but just feel like your in a totally different psychological realm than everyone else?",3,5,8.28711482540049,college
How do i complain nicely about other suites?,"So, I am a freshman and everything in my hall has been perfect. Except the boys below us. Not only do they smoke weed INSIDE, but they play LOUD music way past silence hours (11pm). 

I understand that it is college and sometimes you wanna party, but it is barely the second week and have not been able to sleep because of them. 

I tried asking them to quiet down by sending a text on the hall’s gc, but i just heard them laugh and pumped the music even louder. They didn’t shut up until like 2am, when the girls next to us started stomping on the ground.

My school has a stereotype of being “socially dead” and i really don’t want to contribute to that, but also, i am paying thousands of dollars to attend here, and I don’t want to be dead on my 8ams just because of some dumb boys

I know complaining to my RA’s is an option, but they are never there on their office hours, and they live on the same floor as these boys, so i feel like they’ve given up trying to enforce the rules. What can i do to tell them to shut the fuck up???

Tldr: Boys below me play loud ass music at around 11pm-2am every single day and I don’t know how to tell them to shut the fuck up",2,1,8.305934269844935,college
"College graduates, was it worth it? The debt, the experience, the job opportunities?",,4,1,8.322323158733823,college
Does anyone else think this is weird?,I’m in English comp and my prof is having us write a research paper. I mean cool alright. But he wants us to do our research in the library. We are not allowed to research on the internet. Literally just books. I feel like he’s trying to prepare us for 2004 and not the future. Does anyone else think this is kinda off?,10,2,8.334811584659748,college
How to study for gen chem?,Pls,3,2,8.33680232540049,college
What are your thoughts on professors curving for exams?,"I know I'm going to be very biased towards saving my own GPA at the moment, so I wanted to get other people's opinions. I had an exam where I felt like I did okay, but at the same time, I feel like the professor was being a real hardass. She's not a particularly good lecturer, and the stuff that most people got wrong on the exam was the stuff that she did not include in her slides or in the readings. And I attended every class too; I just think it's unreasonable to expect people to remember everything without anything written to reference back to! (Yes, one can take notes, but she's pretty all over the place.)

So, the average ended up being 76%, and I feel like she should've scaled, if even only to make the average 80%. Thoughts?",8,1,8.369406492067156,college
College and working through it are killing my mental health. I’m going to fail at least one of my classes. What should I do?,"To summarize, I’m in 4 classes. I am most likely going to fail class A, will maybe fail class B, am going to achieve a lower grade than I’d like in C and will probably do fine in D.

I was homeless and I am not any more but I am really afraid to be again. I have bad mental illness. I was working two jobs when I started school and was going to quit job 2 when my school money came in, but my school money hasn’t come in yet and so I’ve been working like 40-60 hours a week in addition to being a full time student and it’s been shitty. I haven’t been able to buy books so I’ve been using the ones in the library which isn’t open 24/7 and so that also limits my ability to succeed.

I skip class really often. I just get anxious about whatever, like seeing the professor and them knowing I’m not good enough to be there or whatever else shit I can’t get out of my head and I don’t go. Sometimes I get 40 minutes past when I should leave and then I do manage to go and I cry after but I go. I also have trouble participating in class or paying attention because I have ADHD with everything else going on

When I get really stressed I get really paranoid thinking like everything is a test (like that my jobs are testing me, my friends are testing me, etc to determine if I deserve to be treated like a Person) and it gets out of hand and I do a lot of crazy shit I shouldn’t. I’m pretty ok at handling it with my jobs and not being crazy super often. I think because I had a learning disability when I was a kid and I got bullied for it the classroom environment exacerbates things also.

I’m trying to do nursing and I’m not even in the program yet. I feel totally fucked about it and I don’t know what to do. I really do enjoy working on my feet at fast paced jobs and I love science especially labs, so I think I’ll be ok once I graduate.

TLDR my brain don’t big work so good, and it’s big not work so good especially because I’m working so much. I’m not doing good in my classes and I don’t know what to do.",7,20,8.371084732807896,college
How To Get The Most Out Of College Experience?,"I am a freshman college student, and I don't want to miss anything out. What's something you gained from college years that lasted after graduation? Friends, academics, or other campus opportunities? What do you value the most?",1,6,8.376073158733822,college
I have too much free time; What is a hobby you always wanted to try?,,8,5,8.393665751326417,college
What to do with my life?,"Ok. Young mint was a fool. I was undiagnosed, un-treated, depressed with high anxiety engaged at 21 that didn’t a flying fuck about school. 
I messed up and left to get married with a 1.76 GPA.
Since then, mint has gotten divorced, and has grown up to a 28 year old who, managed to go back to the same school and raise the GPA to a 2.07 WHILE dealing with: 
a.) the fact I had to feel in the middle of the night from ex-husband fearing for her life. 
b.) my mother diagnoses and then death from cancer 
c.) two jobs
d.) intensive 8 hour 2 month long therapy
All this while I was going back to school. I jumped right back into it because hey I fucked up and need to get on this shit. 
I’ve taken 5 classes so far. I have 64 credits. (I told you I fucked up.)
So, my potential is there. Please don’t say am I sure I can handle a 4-year college.

So, with that being said, I can actually graduate from college this coming spring with my associates if I want.
I MIGHT be graduating with a 2.3 
Now, I want to transfer to a 4 year in pursuit of a degree in education. I live in PA.
I’m trying to figure out what to do. So far with the few colleges I’ve looked into, I need a 3.0.
I’ve had the suggestion to transfer into a major that requires a lower GPA, maintain a 3.0 and then transfer majors after my first year/semester.

I have some other options:
I can re-take some of my previous classes. I am no longer eligible for Financial aid. I CAN however appeal this. Try to bump up my GPA.
I can graduate and then re-apply to a new community college, have financial aid, and earn another 2 year degree. NOW I don’t know if said colleges I would want to transfer to would look at both my graduating GPAs?
I can cry. 
I’ve done that enough hahaha. 
My time when I get this done isn’t limited. I just really want to get my degree in education.

What would you do if you were me?",2,0,8.411813899474565,college
"I need advice about these 2 particular subjects, Its just my first year and i feel like im already failing.","This will be my very first post so go easy on me guys haha. Im half filipino and half egyptian, the reason why im saying this is because ive spent half of my life in egypt(kindergarten to grade 7) where ive never learned tagalog. I came here to the Philippines due to personal reasons and started school here from grade 8 til 1st year of college, And now im at my first year of college taking BSIT here in the Philippines and there are 2 minor subjects that are in tagalog. They would be using the most deepest terms that not even my classmates could understand but lucky for them they're used to it they can pick it up easily, by translating them into simpler terms, or they actually are familiar with these terms since they have taken it in high school. meanhwile for me i kept on failing on my quizzes, barely making it with my activities, and now that its my midterms, i dont think ill be able to pass it. Both of these subjects are history related and its my weakness, ive always failed history subjects even if it was in arabic or English, I'd still fail it. I honestly dont know how i made it this far.

I know people experience failures in their life but for me if i fail these midterms i dont think ill be able to pass my finals. The teachers know my situation that im not really fluent in tagalog. But i wanted to know if there are other people out there who are not fluent in the country's language and are having the same struggles as me. I feel really alone when it comes to this because all my classmates are filipinos. I just wanted to read how people solve this problem. 

I am abit fluent in the language (conversational and reading) but when it comes to the subject itself, im having a hard time with it. My question is if you're in the same situation as me how do you solve it? Ive tried translating into simpler terms but its very time consuming and at the end nothings ends up entering my head. I know these are minor subjects but i have this weight on my back that if i fail like what happened to my sister, my father will be very disappointed. And no one wants to disappoint their parents, well for me that this the case.",1,1,8.438434269844933,college
I have to retake 2 courses I have 3 semesters left. Is it possible?,,6,2,8.460124084659748,college
I’m choosing me in College,"So I’m not sure if I’m writing this in the correct subreddit but here it goes. So ever since I started college I had this idea that success=impressing others. If you’re not majoring in x,y and z then you will be a failure and I fell for that myth. So I would look to double major (Math/Econ or Stat) and even at times try to even triple major (Math/Stat/economics while trying to tack on a comp sci). As a result I would have to study/work literally the 12 hours a day because I was taking like 3-4 intense courses with 1-2 courses not as challenging but still a course nonetheless. I would get good grades but at the cost of not being able to spend time with my friends and family. Not going to the gym and losing much of the muscle I gained prior to college. After 2 years of that, I reflected on myself and realized I wasn’t living. So after those 2 years I decided to choose me. Choose happiness. Choose my friends/family. Choose my health. So I decided to just pick one major and a minor. I posted this to not only share some feelings but to give some guidance to others going through that struggle. 

Now I’m not saying that nobody should double major, not at all. But if you find other parts of your life deteriorating and/or you don’t have a genuine interest in the subjects, then it may not be worth it. It might seem like common knowledge but it really isn’t, at least where I’m from.",2,8,8.536223621696786,college
Freshman year in computer science. Tips?,Thanks.,6,4,8.538897232807898,college
What happens if you don't like the job that your degree prepared you for?,"I studied STEM for five years to get a Masters in Computer Science (scholarship), and I've been working now for two years as a Software Developer.

In those two years of working, I've found out that I hate working in the area with a passion.

Oh, I still love writing code and programming. But working in a company: there's something about taking something I love, a hobby, a passion, and seeing it corrupted by company people that just want to use it for money and only care about low-ball budgets and deadlines. 

Working in software development has ended up being completely different to what it was like studying it. The people are different. Instead of being around bright-eyed gee-whiz nerds, I'm surrounded by (snake oil) salesmen and managerial types that love to twist the words said by technical folk. I also consider my work unethical and I'm disgusted with myself for what I do. Everything is REST APIs these days. And I'm working on web application systems that use REST APIs to on-sell your browsing interactions, so that everywhere you go you can be stalked by big data and machine learning-generated ads of what you just viewed.

I hate my life now, and I can't understand how it turned out this way.

What can I do? I can't just go back to university and choose another career. I have adult responsibilities with adult-sized bills now. 

I seem to be locked in to a life that isn't mine and I don't want. That's what I got from attending college.",4,2,8.568781492067156,college
What to do when you are late in your classes?,"I have been quite sick recently and have been staying behind in my notes for classes.

Any advice?",5,1,8.586478251326415,college
Any universities that don’t give exams?,I’ve heard of them but I think they’re like a unicorn and don’t actually exist. Does anyone have any idea if they do? What are they?,3,2,8.642323158733822,college
Should I pledge?,"Hey Guys,
I’d love your advice!
I went into school not planning to participate in any fraternities, since my family is against it. However, I went to a few rush social events and I met a bunch of really great guys at X fraternity, and I ended up receiving a bid from that fraternity. Also, the 6 friends that I have become close with all received bids from this fraternity. I can pay for the experience myself, but what are some of the pros and cons to joining a frat?",4,1,8.653492140215304,college
Can I get STI without having sex?,"Maybe I’m just being overly paranoid, but my roommate has been hooking up with guys left and right and I have been sharing a lot of things with my roommate (food, drinks, utensils, clothes), and I’m really scared that I could get an STI from her. I’ve never had sex, but I think I may be at a high risk? Does anyone have insight in this stuff? Thanks so much",11,5,8.675911121696785,college
Would this be annoying to my professor?,"So last semester I took a class that studied 19th century american utopias that I absolutely loved. The class was incredibly interesting and we even went on a field trip to sleepover in the mansion of one of my favorite communes we studied. It was a truly unforgettable experience to me. The professor was really great and I liked him a lot. I joined his club and am currently taking another class with him. Anyways, I recently bought a newspaper on eBay that dates back to 1866 from the same commune that we slept over at. I was planning on hanging it up in my room and having it serve as some type of memorabilia conversation piece, but before hanging it up, I was considering showing my professor the newspaper as I think he’ll find it interesting and fun to read. Would it be annoying and would I come off as a “try hard” or “suck-up” to bring him the newspaper to look at during his office hours, or do you think he would enjoy looking at it? 
Thanks for your advice.",4,1,8.69211482540049,college
Thinking about dropping out of community college after my first semester ends,"Because I honestly don’t really know what to do.  I’ve been in community college for a couple of months now and right now currently I’m only taking one class which is intro to digital media. I thought about becoming a photographer but to be honest, as I’m thinking more about it, I think photography is more like a hobby than a profession (or more of a side job.) And I’m also beginning to lose interest in it as well. 

I just got hired at target a few days ago and it‘s my first job so what I’m gonna do is to work to get job experience. Obviously it won’t be my life job. 

I think the main reason I went to college right after high school was because of society’s expectation of us 18-19 year old high school graduates to go to college or university right after high school. My aunt told me to just take my time and work for job experience and you could always go back to college later on in life. I’m considering taking her advice.",7,7,8.703642603178269,college
Applying to 4-year college from 4-year college?,"Pretty much the title.

Could I enroll in a 4-year college with the express desire to apply for freshman entry into a more prestigious university? Would I typically need to declare a major and follow through with it and such or could I just take courses for a while and then move on?

Cheers!",1,1,8.733920380956045,college
Subject Rankings,"Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), Times Higher Education (THE), US News Education, & ARWU. What are each of them known for and which is more dependable?",0,0,8.782612510585674,college
College loneliness,"I’m a current freshmen in college and it’s nothing like anyone ever told me. Everyone told me this is where you make your real friends and have the best time of your life. I’m extremely lonely and have yet to make friends, which is weird because I love being around people and am pretty social. It seems like no ones interested in making friends or doing anything out of class unless you have alcohol or weed. I’ve tried clubs and no one really talked to me or it wasn’t meaningful enough for a friendship. I also don’t get along with my roommate so I spend most of my days alone doing nothing but talking to myself like a weirdo. Is this normal? Will it get better? I’m really trying to put myself out there and be friendly but it’s exhausting when all I get is rejection. The only people interested want to get in my pants.",10,26,8.800239825400489,college
What is a good 4 year bach degree that will complement my 2 year RN degree,"I'm in a predicament where I can't really do a BSN at the moment and it's safer for me to do a 4 year bach then apply to a 2 year program and become a RN. So my question is what is the best degree that will help me in the long run? I'm not looking for answers like ""do biology because it will give you a better understanding,"" I'm looking for answers like do a business degree cause you can move up in the ranks or sth",5,0,8.80986945503012,college
In need of encouragement.,"I currently am working full time (40 hours a week) and going to college studying mechanical engineering. I have 24 hours of class a week. 

I am 23 years old and this is my last year before I obtain me degree. Honestly I just need so motivation because its so tiring...",1,3,8.821501399474563,college
Report on the Economic Well-Being of U.S. Households in 2017 - May 2018,,1,0,8.837091677252342,college
Good business school in Californoa,What are good business schools in California? I don't know which ones are good. My major is international business and entrepreneurship.,3,1,8.8672884365116,college
How do I deal with this class?,"I’m in a comp. sci. class because it is required for the engineering program I’m in. It is the only comp. sci. class I have to take so quite frankly I don’t give a shit about it but I also don’t want to flunk it/bomb my GPA. That’s not the problem though. The problem is my professor has a heavy accent, and speaks in broken English. He also reads off the slides and doesn’t explain anything. Computer Science is practically a language so it’s already hard enough to learn. I still have time to withdraw but I’m afraid that’ll look bad on my transcript since it’s a required course and I’ll have to take it later on anyway. I don’t know what I should do. I don’t see teaching myself code as a viable option since I’m not taking another comp. sci. class after this. My focus is also dedicated to my other classes that are actually important. I also don’t want to cheat my way through this class but I’ve noticed other students are. Any advice?",4,1,8.87359630688197,college
Suite Mates,I really enjoy and like my suite mates but I just don’t feel like I fit in. Like I try my best to pop into the conversations with what I think would fit and relate but I get talked over or I feel like they idk put up with me? Idk I just feel bad. Does anyone have an suggestions or ideas of what to do? It might just be my depression popping up or my anxiety just worsening.,4,2,8.886929640215303,college
What do you guys do with loose leaf textbooks?,"Textbooks that are just loose leaf paper in a binder, not an actual book. I doubt I can sell them since they're so cheap to get, especially with an access code. I have one for Spanish, 2 accounting ones and I'll have one for business law after this semester, and at this point they're just taking up space in my room. What do you guys do with them when you don't need them anymore? Do you just throw them out? I feel weird doing that for some reason lmao",1,1,8.891651862437525,college
Tip for fellow students: Always check on eBay! Got 2 (reg. price is $40 a pop) graphing calculators for $25 total!,,3,22,8.905274547622712,college
Missed classes because of depression scared to return.,I missed around 3 weeks of school and I'm scared to go back . I struggle with depression and anxiety and suicidal thoughts. I'm currently getting treatment for it  and i dont mind showing documentation to my professors/instructers. My school doesnt have a attendance policy but that doesnt mean the instructors dont mind you not showing up and  I'm scared of getting yelled at or told off. I want to go back but i cant seem to find the strength too . Should I email them? Or should i just show up and speak to them before or after  class?,4,2,8.90768195503012,college
Midterm grades in. Doing better than I thought,"So, never was great in school. Used to be a former gifted student. r/aftergifted can tell you all about those experiences.

However, I got my midterm grades back. I have a 2.8. I still need two more points to maintain a scholarship but still. That's better than I thought. I've been turning in homework, been taking notes, trying hard. I am proud of myself. I'm gonna talk to my chemistry teacher tomorrow about an easier way to do a certain thing but I'm proud of myself for putting in this much effort. I owe some of this to my teachers being absolutely amazing. I feel like I can trust them more. I never had a trust for a teacher except for my choir teachers and my math teacher.

One of the greek houses on campus are also helpful with homework. They get some credit too. And my accommodations officer for fighting for my ability to get my accommodations from my terrible high school.

I am proud of myself. I never felt proud about schoolwork before.",1,11,8.909302325400489,college
"What kind of music do you listen to while walking to class, studying etc.?","I’m a pretty huge AC/DC fan so I have a curated playlist of them blasting my eardrums while walking and doing random stuff. 

Sometimes if I need to really concentrate I work in silence but it’s that or AC/DC going on in my earbuds.",7,5,8.916825473548638,college
I think my roommates gonna move out soon,"We get along fine, but we live very differently. She is some kind of superhuman who only needs 5 hours of sleep a night while I need 10. 

She gets into the room every night after I go to bed and she leaves every morning before I wake up. And our door is really loud and creaky so no matter how sneaky she is she’ll likely wake me up. This is especially not good for me bc I get migraines all the damn time here and fatigue can trigger them sometimes. 

She definitely feels bad about waking me up every night, and casually mentioned to me that she thinks she might try to find another open single in our dorm so I’d be left with the open double. I could end up with a random roommate or have a double to myself the rest of the year. 

If any of this happens, I might invite my friend on the next floor up to live with me in my double bc her roommate is driving her crazy but idk if that’s how it works

The only thing that makes me sad about this is that we inherited Good Roommate Vibes TM from all the other people who’ve lived in the room for the past 4 years. I’ve met everyone who has lived in this room and they’re all best friends with their roommate to this day

Idk man I got mixed feelings",3,2,8.930783806881971,college
I don't think I can keep this up,"I never wanted to go to college but since I didn't have any other plans, I went anyway. I'm a freshman majoring in Digital Media and I just don't see how I'm going to be able to do 4 more years of this. I dislike almost all aspects of being here and I think that would be the case at any college I go to. I don't like the classes, the workload, sharing a room, going to the dining halls, the social atmosphere, etc. I'm pretty sure I have anxiety (which I've been too nervous to actually go get diagnosed) which is making everything ten times worse. 

I'm very fortunate to have parents able to pay for my tuition but they also respect my choice if I want to do something else. The thing is, I have no idea what that might be. I never really thought I'd get this far and now that I'm here I'm not sure. I went into college wanting to have a concentration in Game Design but I'm not sure if I will enjoy that career path now (toxic/stressful industry). 

I'm interested in trees, gaming, and photography but I don't see how I can pursue any of these as a career without a college degree to 'back me up.' I guess I'm just looking for any ideas of what to do besides college, because I don't think I can keep doing this.",1,1,8.943827788363452,college
Cc for one year then transfer,"I am currently a senior in high school and my girlfriend is a junior in high school, I was thinking I should go to community college for one year and then transfer to a four-year university. What do you guys think about that if I transferred to the same school that my girlfriend decides to go. We have been dating for four years so it’s not me being a irrational, I truly feel like she’s the one.",10,1,8.949337047622711,college
Any tips for not feeling exhausted halfway through the day?,Besides sleeping more (obviously),11,8,8.967693529104192,college
Course Content is Flawed/Broken,"This is for my computer applications class. Basically it uses an online system to quickly score assignments & quizzes (Pearson ITLab), but I’ve had issues with it all year. It constantly marks questions/tasks wrong when they are in fact right. Today I had a question that asked me to calculate a percentage, pretty straightforward. I punched the formula into Excel and it spat out the answer. Submit for grading & wham, tells me I’m wrong. Prof acknowledges the system is wrong, but no1 seems to be doing anything about. Just about ready to give up doing any other assignments in the class because if they can’t get basic math right then how much worse is it going to get. Pearson refuses to help and keep telling me that if the system says it’s wrong then it is wrong. Any thoughts or help?",1,1,9.008885658733822,college
What are the best paying part time jobs for college students?,I have a job but they might let me go due to the market right now. Do any of y’all have any suggestions of other work fields to go into?,4,2,9.018816214289378,college
Biology,I feel like people work at a faster pace and they know everything they need too know in biology and there’s me I work at a slow pace because I have a hard time understanding like today the two girls I work with their so fast too finish everything and their not understanding I have to process everything that’s going on to complete the lab excel,12,1,9.019279177252342,college
How the fuck do I get a job during school?,"I need to make some money and get a part time job during the school year. I applied to a decent amount of places last spring and half didn't even reply. One actually hired me, but the day before my 2nd day of training I got an email that said the entire department was being shut down and that I didn't have a job anymore. On the 2nd day of training! Like wtf I have the shittiest luck lol.

I applied to two more places this semester. One told me they would hire me if I could be there at 5 am. Its kinda far away so I'd have to get up at 4 or a little later. To get even just 6 hours of sleep that means I'd have to be in bed by 10. 8 hours and I'd have to go to sleep at 8. That's impossible. 

The other place didn't respond.

I'd also prefer a job where I can do homework on the clock sometimes if that was possible.

We have fall break in a few days and I'm going to spend it applying for jobs at school and internships for next summer.

What can I do to actually get people to hire me with a schedule that wouldn't totally fuck up the rest of my life?

For some context, I'm only trying to work like 10-15 hours a week at the most. My scholarship covers most of my tuition so thankfully my parents are able to pay for the rest of the it and my rent. Basically I just want some extra money to be able to do things with my friends, buy some more stuff for my place, etc.",4,1,9.021941214289377,college
Frequent power outtages across campus,"My college has had a string of power outtages this semester, it's not the worst, but not having wifi and now no hot water is beginning to take it's toll on me. 

I don't know when the power will be restored this time, but spending two thousand dollars on this is really upsetting- Any advise for me?",3,1,9.022103251326415,college
Business Case Study Question,"Quick question on a case study. My professor drew up a sample outline for how she wants our case studies to look and included a section on Top Management. This section is absolutely required, as per her instructions. I've written plenty of case studies, but never once included an entire section dedicated to Top Management Teams. Any recommendations on who to include? I was thinking all C-level executives at the time of case publishing, as well as the board of directors. 

For context on the class, I'm a senior marketing student, and this is for a business major capstone, not focused on my specific degree program, but across all business majors. All of my previous case studies have focused on marketing-related topics.",0,1,9.031582417993082,college
Did You Pay Back Your Parents? Did They Let You?,"I think a great present as a way of paying it forward would be to pay back my parents... or at least my mom. I know she struggles with making ends meet and helping to pay for my college (averaging about 9k per semester and a couple thousand more for my dad). 

How long did it take you to accumulate enough money while still living comfortably to be able to make a big gesture and give back to one of your parents who struggled with finances while trying to help put you through school? 

One day for Christmas or for her birthday, I’d like to be able to give her back all the money she spent on me for my education.",3,2,9.038619455030119,college
How do I start some friendships in college?,"After one week everyone havee some person to talk to and I’m here like... where did you guys have time for this? 

I know some people knew eachother before and it’s kinda nice or something but others?

I don’t wanna be (kinda) alone all 3 years. 

It’s supposted to be best time of my life (like high school was supposted to be lol).",6,5,9.039962047622712,college
Magister colin leslie dean the only modern Renaissance man,"Magister colin leslie dean the only modern Renaissance man with 9 degrees including 4 masters: B,Sc, BA, B.Litt(Hons), MA, B.Litt(Hons), MA, MA (Psychoanalytic studies), Master of Psychoanalytic studies, Grad Cert (Literary studies) : who proved Godels theorems to be invalid

http://gamahucherpress.yellowgum.com/wp-content/uploads/GODEL5.pdf

He is also Australia's leading erotic poet

http://gamahucherpress.yellowgum.com/book-genre/poetry/

and showed science/mathematics ends in meaninglessness

1)Mathematics/science ends in contradiction:an integer=a non-integer

http://gamahucherpress.yellowgum.com/wp-content/uploads/All-things-are-possible.pdf

Mathematics ends in contradiction:6 examples

http://gamahucherpress.yellowgum.com/wp-content/uploads/MATHEMATICS.pdf

2) the theory of evolution ends in meaninglessness

http://gamahucherpress.yellowgum.com/books/philosophy/Natural_selection.pdf

3) biology is not a science

http://gamahucherpress.yellowgum.com/wp-content/uploads/Bbiology-is-not-a-science.pdf

3) biologists dont know what a species is-thus theory of evolution is nonsense

http://gamahucherpress.yellowgum.com/wp-content/uploads/BIOLOGISTS-DON.pdf

all very simple and clear

the facts are

1) 1 is a finite number it stops

A finite decimal is one that stops, like 0.157

A non-finite decimal like 0.999... does not stop

when a finite number 1 = a non-finite number 0.999.. then maths ends in contradiction

another way

1 is an integer a whole number

0.888... is a non-integer it is not a whole number

0.999... is a non-integer not a whole number

when a integer 1 =a non-integer 0.999... maths ends in contradiction

2)1)Darwins book is called On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection ....

but

this paper shows natural selection is not the origin of new species Natural selection is not the origin of new species

Natural selection does not generate new genes/species Natural selection adds no new genetic information as it only deals with the passing on of genes/traits already present and it will be pointed out genetics cannot account for

the generation of new species/genes as it is claimed the generation of new genes [via mutation] is a random process due to radiation, viruses, chemicals etc and genetic cannot account for these process happening as they are out side the scope of genetics physics, chaos theory etc may give some explanation but genetics cant

2) Biologist cant tell us what a species is -without contradiction thus evolution theory ie evolving species is nonsense

Biologists agree there is species hybridization

but that contradicts what a species is

3) biologist tell us they investigate life

but

they cant tell us what life is-they can tell us what life does but cant tell us what life is they cant even give a definition of life that is not nonsense",2,0,9.040262973548638,college
"When referring to student loans, what is a grace period?","Many federal loans grant student loan borrowers a grace period after they graduate. During this time, borrowers don’t need to start repaying their loans right away....",1,2,9.05441806614123,college
High EFC?,"Has anyone else filled out the FAFSA and had it generate a ridiculous number for the EFC? I went over the report to make sure that no numbers were entered incorrectly. The EFC is almost twice my parent's income. It is odd as the previous year my parents made more, but the estimated contribution was less. 

I was counting on getting a Pell Grant or some sort of assistance, as I cannot afford college without it. Are there any steps that I should be taking?",3,2,9.056212047622711,college
"Need help choosing a masters track (comp sci, analysis)","So I majored in statistics for undergrad which got me on a more IT/tech track. I was able to land a job creating web crawlers and database stuff but it’s not exactly where I’d want to be at for my career long term. 
I always wanted to get into data science but could never get any interviews right out of college with just a stats degree since almost all of those had a masters as a minimum requirement. I’ve recently decided to apply to grad school and am kind of stuck in choosing which track to apply to. 

I’ve sort of narrowed it down to two options of either a masters in...
1. Analytics with a computational data analytics or a business track. Or
 2. Computer Science with a specialization in Machine Learning. 

I suppose an analytics track would back up the statistics degree but I’m not sure if I should try to broaden out a little bit and go for the comp sci route. I know it’s hard to say as everyone has their own paths with this sort of thing but does has anyone been in a similar situation or could share any experiences you’ve had with either of these routes?",0,2,9.066628714289378,college
Haven’t received my financial aid refund,Hi! So to make a long story short... my local community college was supposed to have financial aid refunds out to the students on October 1st. The school website actually said September 28th. It’s now the 8th and I (and a multitude of others) haven’t received our refunds. Some students are wondering if there’s anything we can do? We’ve contacted the business office and they tell us a generic excuse of “hopefully by Friday” which they’ve been telling us that for 2 weeks now. Apparently it’s a problem with the system they’re trying to fix. I completely understand they’re working on it but at this point I have bills that need to be paid as well as other students. Is there any way to file a complaint or some other route that would be best?,2,2,9.066825473548636,college
assignment results,"I'm normally able to check results for online assignments i take  such as chosen answer and correct answer to a question. One of my classes doesn't show that and by the looks of it after talking to the teacher doesn't plan to show me how i did on the assignment, what answer i chose and what the correct answer was. Am i able to do anything about this? I wanted to have them so i could read, learn my errors and even study with them.",0,1,9.067959732807896,college
Slow paced professor,"Hey so I have a question. I am taking a course at my university and me a several students have noticed we aren't covering the material at the same pace that was outlined in the syllabus. We are in week 8 and still in chapter 4, while the syllabus states we should be on chapter 10. Any advice on what we should do.",1,0,9.071663436511601,college
What classes should I a take?,"Hi! I’m interested in majoring in Environmental Science. I’m currently taking AP Environmental Science, but there aren’t any other Environmental Science classes offered at my school. 

I’m wondering if there are a few other a class classes I could take to expand my knowledge in environmental science. The ones I could take that relate to it are:

Earth Science
Astronomy
Oceanography 
AP Biology

Would any of these be good for me if I wanted to major in Es? I have two full years left of high school and idk what to take. Thanks!",7,1,9.092693529104192,college
I got a 58 on a test I studied really hard for because I didn't realize there was a back side.,"I have no idea how I did this. I thought I was smart, I really did. I walked into that exam room ready to kill it, and I aced the first half of the test. It was easy, I studied, I knew it, when it came back graded I was happy with myself because I kept seeing check marks after check marks. 

Then I got to the end of my graded booklet:

>where's problems 15-22?

I look at my test sheet and, to my horror, there was a back side.

I have no fucking clue how I let this happen. I want to die. My professor agreed to give me half credit on the section I missed, but I was on track for an A, at worst a B+. Now I'm probably going to only barely pass.

FML.",9,106,9.099267603178268,college
"Scored a 61 on my first Bio-Chem exam of semester, is there hope for me in getting a high grade in this class?","Bio was my best subject in high school. I even took AP Bio and aced it. Fast forward to present day where I made a career change, and am back in school on a pre-med track. I haven't taken chemistry since HS, but thought I'd be fine studying the textbook and doing whatever practice problems I could find. I can honestly say I studied diligently for this exam. But, here we are having this discussion about my shit grade. I guess I'm writing this to ask if there are other pre-med people that started off rocky in the science classes, but used a technique, website, or habit that improved their grades?",2,0,9.101582417993082,college
college transfer-Asking a professor for a letter of recommendation,"I took a theater class, and would like to ask the teacher for a letter of recommendation. I took her class from january 2019-May2019. Its now October, and I havent spoken to her since May.

Is it too late to ask her? Are you supposed to keep in touch with professors in order to ask for a recommendation? 

If its ok to ask her, do I just email her and ask her? Do you pay for a letter of recommendation?

(I went to community college after HS, and never had to ask for an LOR before...)",2,1,9.104001399474564,college
I’m starting to have second thoughts about my major,"My major is computer science, this is my second year in community college. I knew that there’s a lot of math required for the field but I thought I can handle it, well, not so much anymore. I’m only in precalculus right now and I’m starting to get sick of it because it’s too much, i haven’t even gotten to calculus and I’m struggling, in addition to that, my computer science professor is not very helpful so I’m not learning anything useful in that class either, has anyone else been in a similar position? Idk what to do anymore",4,2,9.110714362437527,college
How should I talk to my inconsiderate roomate?,"Reddit, I'm at my wit's end with my roomate, but I still feel I don't have enough reason to ask her to be more considerate. She brings over her ""not boyfriend boy-friend"" almost every day. Our school has visiting hours where guests need to be checked in so they can leave on time, which she did not follow until I got in trouble for having one of my guy friends grab his sweatshirt from my room a few weeks ago. She brings him over when I'm sleeping and studying, and makes no attempt to be considerate. They talk loudly, watch movies without headphones, wrestle, and make it impossible to nap or write a paper. Her friend has helped himself to my drinks and snacks twice. She has never apologized for disrupting me or shows any inclination that she knows it is wrong. She comes in at 1 or 2 in the morning every night, and has 8ams almost every day, and I know she's not sleeping enough which is concerning me because I really do care about her well-being. She showers and soaks the bath mat, which I wash as often as I can, but she never wrings it out or hangs it up. My 2 other suite mates and I have all taken turns cleaning the bathroom, which she never does or offers to help. She sits on her bed and watches us. She once threw up in the toilet and my other suite mate cleaned it up, which she didn't acknowledge or thank at all. She is always invited to hang out with me and the other suite mates, but she has declined every time to hang out with other friends or study, but she always makes an off-hand comment about how she never gets to come with us. She came out to dinner with us a few days ago and talked on her phone, was rude, and refused to be in a picture of all of us. She also has froze the AC twice (she didn't believe me the first time when I told her we can't keep the AC at 50)  and told me to call maintenance instead of doing it herself. I don't want to approach her and tell her I don't like how she has friends over, because I don't want to create animosity or make her feel like she can't have anyone over, but I would love to say ""It feels really inconsiderate when you wake me up or distract me from homework. What can we do about it? and work something out, because I don't like arguing or making people mad. I also made a chore wheel for the bathroom which she told me she doesn't plan on following. My RA suggested talking to her on my own. Please help. I don't want to switch rooms because I love my suite mates.",4,9,9.116131029104192,college
Advisor Questions Answer Here!,Wanting to withdraw from a course? Worried about midterms? Not sure what to do in an academic situation? Let me know! I am here to help,0,1,9.117901862437527,college
Looking for some reviewers for my paper,If anyone would like to give my paper a read for my composition class and help with any finishing details I’d appreciate it. DM me if you’re available. It’s due in about 48 hours from posting and it’s not a required review but I would like to get some more voices on it first. Thanks,0,2,9.13160556614123,college
What are the best resources to use when taking the G.R.E?,Spoke to a few directors for the programs I’m interested and they said good results would be scoring at about the 40th percentile or better. I’ve never been a fan of make or break tests so I was wondering what resources would be the best to help nervous test takers like me?,2,2,9.140181955030119,college
How do I become better at keeping track of what I need to get done?,"Not just homework, but also menial things like cleaning the bathroom, scheduling an appointment with my advisor, or heck, even shaving. Ever since starting college, I noticed that I have a hard time keeping track of shit I need to do. Of course the biggest thing is homework - I have trouble keeping track of what assignments I need to get done by a certain day, or reminding myself to read a book for a class, or studying. And some other things such as keeping track of certain dates (events around campus, clubs, ect) I also have a hard time of remembering.

Does anyone have any advice on how I can be better at keeping track of my shit. I know this question seems kinda obvious, but I just need to hear it from people to really know what to do. And please no comments such as ""dude you're screwed"" or ""how did you even get into college?"" Yes, I *know* this is bad, and that is why I want to fix it as soon as possible.

Please. This is just college we are talking about, here. I don't want these bad habits to carry onto when I move into a house, have to start paying bills, and having a job.",3,2,9.144128714289378,college
I'm really worried about finidng an apartment next year and I don't know what to do in this situation.,"My college pricing seems to follow this general pattern: 

Nice apartments, extra af, close to main street - $750-$850 a month

Nice apartments, close to main street - $650 a month 

Nice apartments, far far far far from main street extra inconvenient - $400 a month

Meh quality apartments, close to main street - $500 a month 

My 2 friends who I want to room with and are apartment searching with me are going for the $650. My mom refuses to pay more than $500, and I'm definitely not going for the far apartments so I'm trying to go for the $500 ones. My friends, however, really don't want to but I'm sure they'll adjust for me. But anything that comes up that they don't like in those apartments when we live there, they'll always be reminded of the fact that I'm the reason they're there and they could be having something better. 

What should I do? 

\- I don't know how to convince my mom. See, I'm pretty much going to college at the mercy of my parents so I feel like I don't have any right to ask for more money than they're willing to pay. I spend a total of $0 dollars on anything not school related and I only eat using my meal plan right now. I'm trying to find a job during the spring semester so I can earn spending money. I had like $100 to spend but my mom visited last weekend and took my cash back home so that kinda demonstrates how stingy she is. 

\- I could ditch my friends and sign a lease with some random people I don't know but that might turn out shitty and I might end up with no one to hang out with 

\- I could convince my friends to get the $500, although I'd feel guilty for everything wrong with the apartment and I'd have to live with that

I feel like I don't have any options, and we're supposed to sign a lease this weekend. Someone please give me advice ):",1,1,9.145158806881971,college
What major at your college has the most annoying students and why?,"I think we all know that certain degree programs at our respective schools tend have an inordinate amount of...really frustrating students...enrolled into them. I know this is very subjective, and I have been running into some real gems lately, so I was wondering what other people perceived at their school.

In my case, it used to be nursing students since one too many of them belittled my degree as being of lesser importance, but recently I've had the misfortune of hanging around film students and they are the most pretentious people I think I have ever met. They're very obnoxious when it comes to ""defining true cinema,"" which is always some arthouse flick, and they like to sneer at you for liking anything Spielberg has done.",64,35,9.147496769844935,college
Support JMU's new convocation center: The Algerdome,,0,1,9.171200473548637,college
"Mom is anti-vaxx, and I need vaccines. How do I get them without her knowledge?","As the title says, my mother is anti-vaxx. I need to get vaccines to go to school, travel, study abroad, etc. I live at home, am on the family health insurance, and my mom has access to all of my medical records (old and new ones that get added as i go to doctors appoinments, etc). How do i get the vaccines I need under without her knowing? She believes in the ""vaccine injuries"" and ""poisoned vaccines"" and all of those conspiracies.",10,13,9.174637973548638,college
Has anyone cancelled a housing contract mid year and moved out after the semester,"I realize this is more of a college specific question, but I'd like to see what others have experienced. 

I'm thinking of moving home and commuting to save money on room and board. Planning to move out after this semester. Just wondering if it's possible. I signed a housing contract for both semesters. I realize there'll probably be cancellation fees but $500 is nothing compared to $5,000 of room and board I'd barely use if I'd be staying at my parents and eating home meals all the time.",1,1,9.176212047622712,college
Is it OK for professor to test students in a STEM related course over problems that the professor herself has trouble solving?,"The professor will try to solve example problems in class, but struggles while doing so. While trying to solve the problem on the blackboard, she comes off as a student that is just learning the material for the first time. Of course talking about the theory, the professor has no problem explaining. It can take one hour for her to reason and solve one problem, going back and forth.

On the exams, the professor will put two or three of similar problems, and ask the students to solve within a similar time period (1 hour and a half). I was wondering if this is something that was normal for professors to do? When I ask the professor she tells me I need to self learn, but does not provide any resources to do so.",2,1,9.1816634365116,college
Getting ice cream from 40 minutes away?,"I know this is a googleable question but I can’t find any reasonably solutions for someone in college without tons of resources or time.

I’m lactose intolerant so if I want ice cream I have to go to a fairly large store so that they actually have the variety/space to carry the lower volume products like almond milk ice cream or whatever. The issue is that the nearest place is 40 to 50 minutes by bus. I’m fairly certain it’ll melt in that time and so I’m not sure how to get it. People online say to use dry ice but I’d rather not buy a cooler and dry ice to get a few pints of ice cream.",7,4,9.191593992067157,college
Should I change my major?,"I’m currently a Political Science major with a legal studies minor. Even though I am part of the Pre Law society, do really well in my major classes and even received a scholarship from the political science department I still think I’m not good enough to attend law school. I’ve always wanted to be a lawyer but I’m generally a quiet person and when I tell ppl about being a lawyer I get told that I don’t look like the lawyer type and that I’m too quiet to be one. I believe that my professors think that too, so I’m starting to doubt myself about whether to go into law or if I should change my major completely.",3,4,9.202288436511601,college
How do I know if I'm ready for early college courses?,"Hi- I'm a 16 year old in high school, I've always despised highschool but loved the thought of college. Back then I was a dumb kid and didn't care for my highschool grades (freshman and sophmore year). I was always tired and struggled because of my ADHD and it caused me to give up, I stopped taking my medication during that time as well.

Now I'm a junior, and I'm stuggling a tad bit, but I'm but I think I'll stay at a C average- but, I need advice, I'm not sure If I should pursue my dream of college at an early age or if I should wait, two main courses.I have been wanting to take was nursing (not a 100% sure what kind yet) and animation/art.

From people who have experienced JJC (Joliet Junior College) do you think I could handle it? I struggled and didn't care for my freshman and sophomore year, but now I'm trying to get serious about my future.


TLDR; I'm worried I won't be able to handle high school and a few college courses, thoughts?",2,1,9.21623519577086,college
How many hours should a College Student Work?,"For some context, I am completely paying for my own college tuition and next semester I am moving off-campus.  I am thinking of getting two jobs to help pay for the added expenses as rent and whatnot.  Would I have enough time to study or should I only stick with one job?  

Thanks for the help!",30,25,9.219151862437526,college
RA wants me to talk to downstairs neighbor about leaving their trash outside the front door for days. Good idea or bad idea?,,9,2,9.228318529104193,college
What the hell do I major in??,"Hello,

I'm a sophmore at my local community college and for the life of me, I cannot decide what to major in. My current major is criminal justice but I recently came to the conclusion that I don't want to be a cop and the job market for anything else isn't very solid. I plan to major in something STEM related but I honestly don't know how to go about planning my major. I am more interested in jobs that will have me more on my feet than sitting down staring at a screen for several hours. However, I also want to ensure I have an easy time getting a job after graduating. I have done some research and complied a list that seem interesting to me;


Biochemistry

Mechanical engineering

Statisticics

Law school

Biomedical science

Analyst

Please let me know your take on these majors/career paths.",7,1,9.231929640215304,college
Any Americans studying in Germany?,"How was the enrollment and moving process?

Serious responses only please. 

Posted this in another sub reddit and I was trolled and post marked NSFW.",2,6,9.236732880956046,college
Anyone here fought a college parking ticket and won?,"A few days ago I did as one does and went to my friend's campus apartment to study and ended up also getting drunk.  It's a bit of a haul so I drove there and, like a responsible person, left my car there overnight, instead hitching a ride back to my place with a sober friend who also drove.  This morning when I got back to my car to bring it home it had a hefty ticket from my school's public safety.  I understand that I didn't have a permit to park where I parked, but the lot is never full, and I was trying to do the responsible thing- in no way was I capable of driving home safely myself.  Normally I'd just acknowledge my fault and pay up but it's more money than I can afford and I have an option to appeal it.  My friends and I are all of age, and the apartments aren't ""dry,"" so the only misconduct in question is my lack of a parking permit.  I feel like I might actually have a case, especially since the ""court"" is made up of fellow students.  I know all schools are different, but has anyone here experienced anything similar?",9,1,9.24080695503012,college
Should I major in marketing if I’m not great at math?,"If there is a better sub for this kind of question, please let me know! :)

So, I am currently a marketing major but I have been having doubts. I really am not great at some maths such as algebra and geometry. I passed geometry with a 75 and nearly failed algebra 2 (algebra 1 I finished with like an 85). 

However, I am great at statistics and finance In high school I did so well I was able to exempt my final exams for both classes. The work was easy to me and I went from the dumb kid in math to top of the class. I feel like marketing has more to do with stats and sales, but I know it has some geometry stuff too like graphs and I’m terrible at that. Should I continue this major?

If it helps I am currently a college freshman and the only math class I’m taking right now is college algebra which I currently have a 75 in.",3,1,9.269001399474563,college
Is it fair to be tested on material that was not discussed in lecture?,I am in a biology class and every quiz and exam there are questions I just straight up do not know and I know that they were not discussed in lecture because I record all the lectures and rewatch them. Curious on what you guys think and how you handled a situation like this?,8,10,9.272762973548637,college
"In the USA, is it possible to get a good computer science degree online from a tuition-free university in Europe?",,1,1,9.273758343919008,college
Transferring senior year,"First time on this sub, delete if not allowed. 

I could really use some advice. I'm extremely upset right now. I go to DePaul University as an education student. I am a senior, set to finish all courses by Spring 2020 and do student teaching Fall 2020. 

I have six courses left. 

Due to a scheduling error on both my and the university's part, I have just found out that I needed to take a class that is only offered fall term. All courses must be completed before student teaching, so this means that my student teaching would be deferred to Winter 2021. This is not a viable option for me for many reasons, the main one being I am set to move across the country immediately after student teaching. For financial reasons, I would not be able to not make this move at this time. 

Basically, I am in communication with my school to see if there's anything I  can do about the credit. In the meantime I am considering other options, like transferring to a school in the area I would be moving to. 

Are senior year transfers even a thing? Is there any hope? I've read online that most schools will only accept students with junior standing and below, but I'm willing to re take classes if that's what it takes. 

Thanks in advance, sorry for the long read. 

Tldr: scheduling conflict screwed me and pushed back grad date. Need to know if transferring schools is a viable option",1,0,9.282404177252342,college
Does Respondus LockDown Browser (not Respondus Monitor) screen record?,,7,3,9.283156492067157,college
NSOAE Legitimacy,"Has anyone received an email from [The National Society of Academic Excellence](https://www.nsoae.org) (NSOAE)? 

Does anyone know if this is legitimate?",3,1,9.287346306881972,college
Disrupting the class,"Okay, so there are these two people that sit behind me in class that basically talk throughout the whole class period. It has progressively gotten worse as the weeks have gone by. And I’m not talking about whispering. They talk about partying and everything in their normal voices. Multiple people that sit around them have told them to be quiet before but it obviously hasn’t stopped them.  It’s gotten to the point where the whole section of about 25-30 seats are annoyed by it.  People turn around and shoot them dirty looks or say “shhhh” The prof is basically deaf so he’s not going to catch on to what’s going on. Is there anything that can be done here?",6,2,9.287404177252341,college
Has anyone sublet their house for winter break?,"I'm going home for winter break but I live in an apartment so I want to sublet and break even for that month instead of paying rent on a room I'm not even using. Is this possible? And if you've done it, where do you put up ads for it?

*Edit: room not house",2,1,9.289151862437526,college
Have you ever had a professor not allow a calculator for a test that involves math?,"We have a test next week that involves some simple math but the professor said no calculators ""because some people is their cellphones as calculators"" and cell phones aren't allowed. Some students expressed that they weren't comfortable doing math without a calculator and his response was ""you shouldn't be in college if you can't do simple math without a calculator"". 

This all seems unnessacary and a bit harsh to me.. But maybe it's more common than I think?",24,10,9.289938899474564,college
Have a college math test in less than an hour wish me luck,,7,7,9.291512973548638,college
How to find a good private tutor,"I'm an undergraduate engineering student who is struggling in calculus II. I went to my university's tutoring center, but was disappointed by the quality of the tutors... one of whom is taking the class with me currently (??) I am lucky enough to be able to hire a tutor on my own. I found varsity tutors through a quick google search but idk how reputable it is. Any tips for finding good tutors?",3,2,9.2985384365116,college
How do you get your sleep schedule back on track after pulling an all nighter?,"I had to pull an all nighter last night because there was just no way I would know what I was doing for a programming quiz I’m taking today at 1 pm. I know ppl say it’s better to get sleep but not when you haven’t even touched the program you have a quiz for. 

Anyways, my sleep schedule was super good until this. Anyone have good advice for getting your sleep schedule back on track after pulling an all nighter? 

I was thinking of taking a 3 hour nap after my quiz and then finishing other things I have due soon.",5,8,9.304718992067157,college
Outreach: What do YOU prefer?,"I'm an Academic Advisor who focuses on proactive student outreach and early intervention. I come here asking you, the students, what I should or could be doing to better serve the campus. What means of contact are you most responsive to? (Email, phone, text, other?) I find that I have a large population of students who are not responding to my current outreach to schedule a meeting to provide info early before issues arise, and also struggling to get students who have early alerts to come discuss strategies for success. Basically, I want to know if there is something else I should be doing, or if there is any feedback from your experiences that makes you more (or even less) likely to attend an advising appointment! Any thoughts would be appreciated, as I am at a loss!",3,5,9.30473056614123,college
Can you report teachers who keep emailing/harassing you?,"I have been going back and forth with a college professor. I have been as respectful as possible but she keeps emailing me to prove some ""point"" when I just wanted to explain my situation. I tried saying ""I have dropped out of your class"" aka saying it's my last email and I just wanted to explain everything. I told her thank you for the time in your class and I was hoping that'd be it. 

THEN he emails me again going on and on / putting me down and that's when I put my foot down and countered her points and said I was blocking her since I had no need to ever talk to her again. 

Then I blocked her.

I was getting increasingly worried if she would try to message me on a different email and continue to harass me via emails. Could I report her if this occurs? I don't want to argue with a 40-50 year old teacher who should be grown enough to calm down and just be in a respectful discussion with another student. The thing is, she's the head of a Club so I'm worried that she does continue to email me, she will go unpunished. 

I'm not saying for her to get her job revoked or anything, but just to let the school know so they can take measures. Thank you very much for the help!",10,6,9.304857880956046,college
Why would professors discourage me with my career?,I had a professor discouraged me with my career. I told him that I want to proceed to medicine but he told me that I will not be paid enough for the stress I will get. I decided to switch to become a biotech scientist and another professor told me that there is mo money in biotech because companies are closing. I am one of the top student with 3.90 GPA.,5,2,9.31234630688197,college
Should I transfer colleges?,"Currently going to a large state school (20,000 students) in my sophomore year on the bachelor of nursing track. Don’t have many friends and not a fan of the large class sizes. Wife goes to small private college (2,000 students) 15 mins away from my school. We both live on campus at the private schools non trad student apartments. Both colleges have excellent nursing programs. I make money going to the large public (scholarships/financial aid) but would make more money per semester by going to the small private. So debt/money isn’t an issue going to either school. I would be closer (5 min walk) and have a smaller class size if I were to go to the private school. Do you think it would be a bad idea to transfer?",1,1,9.316651862437526,college
Did anybody else kinda struggle with College Algebra?,"I’ve never been all that great at math, but I thought I was at least decent. I’m a freshman this year and one of my classes is College Algebra (1111). Well let’s just say I didn’t do that great on the first two exams and now I’m probably gonna have to withdraw. For my major I only need one math class but I’m still kind of torn on it. I went to tutoring multiple days a week yet still failed. Should I take the class again next semester or just take it during the summer at home? Thanks a lot!",10,1,9.321408806881971,college
400 level class as a freshman?,"I recently joined an environmental club on campus, and we had two advisors from the journalism department come and tell us about this class they're offering this spring and next fall. It's a really cool eco journalism course that does a lot of hands on work with connecting our state to the global dialogue on climate change. You can only take the class if you're one of the 20 accepted applicants, so I've been working on that (includes a resume, essay, and work sample).

They said they're looking for passionate students for the class, and that it doesn't necessarily matter if you have journalism experience or not (which seemed a little odd to me, but each to their own). I told my advisor about it in a meeting today and she basically just went on about how it probably won't be a good fit and how she'd never put a freshman in a 400 level course, going on about how incredibly difficult it would be. She didn't outright say not to apply for it, but was strongly discouraging me from signing up for it (assuming I even get accepted).

However, I did have a lot of experience with high school counselors greatly overestimating the difficulty of course loads, and/or underestimating me. There were definitely counselors who thought taking like 3 AP classes at once was impossible to balance, even though I took 7 each semester of senior year and was perfectly fine. I'm almost wondering if this is similar to the mindset my advisor has.

Has anyone taken a 400 level class as a freshman? Is it doable? Is my advisor being dramatic, or should I listen to her? This sounds like an amazing opportunity, and I was an editor for the school paper in high school. Obviously, this doesn't mean I'm as experienced as a journalism major, and I doubt high school journalism is nearly as rigorous as that at the college level, but some familiarity with design programs and knowledge of journalism kind of puts me over their lack of requirement for experience. Should I even apply? I have no clue if I'd get in, but my advisor was making it sound like I was crazy for even considering the class.",4,3,9.323955103178267,college
How updated do you stand on global news?,"Just my curiosity how often, do you read and look at global news? Some of the stuff happening around the world is crazy and  I wish sometimes I could do more to help make changes.",0,1,9.325691214289378,college
Screwed up big in Chem,"My school has research labs. There is only ONE person who runs a research lab that aligns with my career path. He happens to be my lecture professor. My lecture prof is BFFs with my lab prof. Here’s where everything went wrong: 

I bombed my first exam in lecture. 2 days later, I go to lab and and knock over a glass flask with solution. My lab prof was cleaning it up and he says “What would you guys do if I just failed you all?” and I panicked and said “Kill myself.” My lab prof is supposed to be my ticket into the research lab but now he may report me. Now I have a C in lecture and a lab prof who may think I’m an unstable nutcase. Not sure what to do.",0,0,9.329325473548638,college
How do I talk to a professor about a grade change?,"I got an F on a recent essay and the professor commented that I got that grade because I had little/no understanding of the topic. I feel that I had some understanding of the topic.


All I want to do is just bump my letter up from an F to a D. I also heard that this professor is a very tough grader.


What do I do?",2,4,9.33172130688197,college
Is a 2.8 GPA bad for my freshman year in university?,"Hi guys. I am currently an undeclared student in the bachelor of arts program and at the moment I am standing at about a 2.8, between a B- and a B, GPA. I'm a little disappointed but wanted to know if this is a particularly bad grade? If so, what are some ways I can pull it up to a 3.0 by the end of this semester? Thanks in advance!",19,3,9.337577788363452,college
Burned out and not trying enough in class,"I don't know if this is burnout or what, but I just cannot bring myself to try super hard in my bio class anymore. Last year, my freshman year, I went to office hours twice a week, studied every night, and really got to know my professor. This year, I've only been to office hours once, barely talk in class, and study about half as much.  I got an 80% on my first exam for this class and my prof doesn't curve. Looks like I either need to step it up or accept that I'm a failure. I see all the try-hards going into office hours and sucking the prof's ass, but I just don't feel like playing that game anymore. I feel like I'm not trying hard enough but I really just wanna learn the info, not put on a show for an A.",1,2,9.337728251326414,college
Is it a difficulty journey to transfer Community College credits to schools out of state?,"I may take some Community College credits next semester here in the state where I live, and then transfer in 2021 when I suspect I'll be moving out of state. Not sure what uni I'd be going to, but right now I would be going to a community college next semester.

The question is, is this a huge pain in the ass or are there certain general education classes that transfer out of state? Would appreciate some help before making some moves, thank you.",2,1,9.341848621696785,college
"I asked to work alone but was denied, so I improvised and worked alone in the group project which turned out FANTASTIC.","You ever been a group project you’re just dreading because you know group members either procrastinate too hard or they don’t do their work the way it should be done? Exactly, they don’t learn. But this time I approached it differently and it worked out.

I’ve been in the same position where I begged to work solo and was denied and put in a 4-5 man group. So I told my group, look, I can do the entire project, you just have to roll with it. They agreed.

So after about 6000 words and a presentation I put together, I just told them what they needed to say and where they needed to put their names for each section they supposedly did the work for. I got an A and my other group members got an A and they didn’t even do any work so I scored some social points on that too because they were really happy to have somebody like me. I was happy they got As and I controlled my own grade 100%.

TLDR: I asked my group for me to do all the work so I can handle the project, they agreed. All they had to do was write down their names like they did help and we all got As. Sometimes a little communication and trust goes a long way. This prevented the hassle of dealing with procrastination or incorrect work.",3,0,9.392589362437526,college
First time that Im happy that I failed a course,"I study in a country with free education, and up until this point (sophomore year) Ive been mindlessly failing and withdrawing classes. However, for some reason this is the first time that Ive come to realize after many failures that Im not willing to do this anymore. Im not talking about dropping out of college, but im tired with being so lazy and mediocre. I think that this could be a turning point for me, for the first time since highschool I want to actually do something and not be left behind and not add extra years to my college experience.

English isnt my first language, so I hope that you guys can understand what im getting at.",8,9,9.426686584659748,college
Messed up my GPA and don't know what to do for graduation,"Currently in mechanical engineering. And I've pretty much done messed up my GPA it's around 2.96 and I don't even know what I want to do. I like automation ,aerospace and I don't have any good knowledge in both of these fields. I have unnecessary knowledge of psychology, coding . I haven't done much in extra curriculars too. Other than being part of an ASME chapter. Like idk even know what to do...only one and half years left till I complete my undergrad. Please help",17,10,9.436165751326415,college
A dumb tuition question,I just got accepted in to CSULB as a transfer student. I’m looking at the tuition cost on their website and I’m confused. It’s telling me for a full time student (7+ units) it’s $2871. If I were to take 12 units would the cost stay the same or would it increase? I’m trying to do this for as little money as possible. My AA-T cost me a grand total of zero dollars. Gotta love community college.,5,1,9.456339362437527,college
"Feeling so, so lost","I should be getting ready to graduate this year. As it all stands, I’m barely a junior in credits that I have earned that ACTUALLY matter to my current major. I’m realizing, finally and far too late, that I honestly suck at science. Bio I and II were fine. Turns out the actual chemistry part fucks with me. I know I can’t do med school. MAYBE I can get a PA masters (like I originally wanted).... Cell Bio, Genetics, O Chem I, and pre-calc math (not even hard math),:... I’m not cut out for this. I have zero idea what to do. How do I tell my parents? They bankroll me.... they are very supportive for the most part, but I feel so awful and sick with myself. Idk what to do. Has anyone been in this situation? I’m lowkey expecting to fail my OChem midterm tomorrow, despite dedicating my entire week and weekend to studying it, with the help of tutors and friends. I feel sick to my goddamn stomach, I just wish someone could point me in a good direction, I guess. If you’ve ever been in a similar position, please just let me know I’m not alone....",5,7,9.560506029104193,college
I'm tired of not picking the right major,"Everything was supposed to be smooth sailing and now I'm a junior but considered a sophomore because I switched from bio to comp sci and I'm regretting it. Biology made me feel stupid. Computer science makes me angry. I feel like I'm being rushed and I don't learn anything, I only sleep for 3 or 4 hours throughout the week to still end up confused and forgetting the last thousands of slides my class goes through weekly. My professor is a dick who wants to be the next bill gates and I'm tired of rotating majors to only learn I'm wasting time and money and sleep. I've already went to a cc but I just wanna leave now. It isn't fun and I get anxiety from just thinking about school.",2,2,9.591374084659748,college
I don't think I can study veterinary medicine,I live in Germany and in my school I have to decide between biology and chemistry and to study veterinary medicine you have to do both. Fuck. Do I have to transfer or is it possible to just do biology?,5,1,9.619070843919008,college
Regretting Transferring,"Hi all,

I did my freshman year at Montana State University. I applied for transfer to UW Madison (in my home state) during my first semester because I found my classes to be too easy, and many of my peers to be disengaged/not academically minded. Additionally the psychology department (I'm a psych major) at Montana pales in comparison to the one at UW Madison.

Second semester I found some really close friends and really got to exploring Montana. I was physically active and really on top of my school work. It actually felt good to have work to do. I also started taking more challenging classes. I've had chronic depression almost my whole life and for the first time, that second semester, it really went away.

I spent summer in Madison to try and meet people/""get my foot in the door."" This was a mistake. Nobody was my age (people here mostly just go out to 21+ bars for fun), and I fell into a lonely deep depression. I moved back to my hometown for August. I realized I wasn't excited to go back to Madison, but I'd give it a try.

I feel stuck in Montana. I don't particularly dislike Madison, (Idk how much I like the excessive drinking culture though) but all I can think about is how amazing it was in Montana. I remember the day before I left feeling sad that I was leaving all my friends and this amazing place. I realized I would have been okay/happy with staying there. I feel like I can't connect with anyone/give Madison a chance because I don't want to leave Montana behind.

Sorry for the long post. Should I stay in Madison, or transfer back to Bozeman?

Montana State: Tuition with academic scholarship (which I might not get back) $12,000. Where I have close friends, enjoy living, enjoy the adventurous culture, and could excel amongst my peers. 
UW Madison: Tuition is $10,000. Where I have some high school friends, don't mind living, dislike the work-hard play-hard drinking culture, and there are many good research opportunities and connections in psychology.

Thanks guys.",2,1,9.673445843919009,college
My dad tells me he will only let me study finance if I double major with accounting and get a CPA,Why does my dad think I will end up in banking. I want to end up somewhere in corporate finance and I get that a finance major can only get you so far but what if I had the idea of finance major and minor in CS or sth. Sometimes I get so aggravated. Doesn’t having a CPA mean I’ll work as an accountant ?,4,6,9.675401862437527,college
"Anyone else stressing about their grades, even though midterms haven’t come yet?","Long story short, I missed one day of chem because I had gotten no sleep the nights before and needed rest. Due to that, I didn’t know how to do the pre-lab assignment. I already failed the first test and my homework score is just barely passing. I know I can make it if I keep working hard but god I’m so nervous about failing this class. I really need to pass it so I can continue on with my major courses",4,6,9.683202788363452,college
Do people usually go to grad school straight out of undergrad or do they work for a bit before going to grad school?,"I was interested getting either a masters in math or maybe a PhD? I’ve seen people go either way when it comes to the post title, but I guess it might depend on what field they’re in? I’m in my third year and I’ve been looking at grad schools. However, I lack work experience and I’ve never done any internships or anything like that. I have a fairly decent gpa (> 3.0) and I wonder if it’ll be better for me to work for a few years before going to grad school. What do you think?",4,1,9.707265288363452,college
GRE Tips?,So I am a senior and my set date to take the GRE is November 7th. I am taking the general test but since I am the only one I know going to graduate school there's not a lot of people to ask. Any tips?,2,1,9.756107880956044,college
Am I the only one who doesn’t find College anymore harder than high school?,"I feel like it literally just comes down to time management. I don’t find the material any more harder.
I remember hearing all those college freak out and stress stories back when I was in high school but now I’m in uni and I don’t see the big hoopla that I was hearing.

For reference: I’m an accounting major at a top 5ish school in my country.",9,10,9.778006029104192,college
"Is it true that you can be overqualified for an entry level job, if you have a masters degree?","By entry-level, I don't mean jobs in the retail or service industry such as fast food worker and so on. I'm talking about entry-level positions that advertise bachelor degree holders as a major qualification. 

&#x200B;

Currently, I'm debating taking on a master's program because I want to enter a different field than the one my bachelors' is in. However, I'm having second thoughts because of this main issue, and I am thinking if a second bachelors' degree will pose less of a risk.",12,4,9.784175010585674,college
How hard is it to self study Intro to Microeconomics during a semester/vacation?,"I will be overloading myself if I take this class next semester, so I want to take CLEP or ap and get the credit from that.

How hard is it? I am doing very well in Macro",4,4,9.793040751326414,college
"Anyone else feel like they have an internal ""countdown"" until the next time they get to go home?","Does anyone feel like they are involuntarily counting down the days until the next time you get to go home? Even if I'm having a good time, this ""clock"" is still at the back of my mind. I just wanted to ask and see if this is a normal thing college kids deal with. Is this worth talking to a therapist about?",2,7,9.81248519577086,college
Is it appropriate to ask to retake a test due to mental health?,"For example, would it be appropriate for a student to ask to retake an exam because they had a miscarriage the day before, or family death recently, etc., just basically some sort of situation that makes it difficult for the student to focus on the exam? I know the professor is ultimately the one who decides the retake policy and what situation is valid or good enough to invoke a retake. I am just wondering if it would be inappropriate to ask. I know it is encouraged to focus on school above all else but we are all human.",4,1,9.828885658733823,college
Proctor U error resulted in me missing final exam,"Exam is worth 15% of course grade. The exam was on proctor u, and is in a pre-req science course. I had logged into proctor u normally and did a system check, and my computer and internet connection passed the check. However, when it came to opening the proctor chat box, I got a blank box. Although a proctor was connected, I cannot communicate with the proctor as I cannot see the messages because the proctor chat box wasn't working. I was talking with customer service trying to resolve the issue, but by the time I finished, the exam's deadline had already passed.  


My professor's policy is that she will allow makeups if it was proctor u's fault, but not if it is my fault or I had internet issues. She contacted proctor U and they said my internet connection was weak and I refused to communicate with the proctor. My internet connection passed their system check, and I was also taking the exam at my University Library. And I couldn't respond to the proctor cause the proctor's chat was blank.   


Do you think I'm in the wrong or proctor U is in the wrong, or somewhere in the middle. I did everything under my control to make sure my computer met the requirements, including passing the system, check. The main issue is regarding why the chat box wouldn't pop up that will allow me to communicate with a proctor.   


The highest grade I can get is a C+ without this exam. I feel like its ridiculous I would get a 0 for something out of my control. I would understand if I outright forgot about the exam, but they are punishing me as if I was cheating. Even if I cheated, at least I have a 20% chance of not getting caught and getting a grade. Here, I'm automatically awarded a 0.   


Would it be wise to speak to the Dean? While the delay cannot be said to be exclusively proctor u's fault, it also cannot be on my part, or it was something that was completely out of my control as I made sure my computer passed the system.",4,5,9.84930232540049,college
Do you guys think that college professors should be required to have professional experience in the fields they are teaching?,"Should professors be required to have professional experience in the fields they are teaching? More specifically in fields like business and/or accounting, though this can apply to fields like engineering or law too, should they be required to have some real world experience. I feel like I see a lot of our professors who have spent there whole life in academics, and never practiced in the real world, and are constantly telling us what to expect or how we should practice when in reality they haven’t experienced it. Thoughts?",19,4,9.8538509365116,college
"Got a 65% on the first exam that's worth 20%, am I screwed?","I am a freshman. This is a gen Ed class that I'm taking, there are three exams each worth 20%, the first exam was harder than I thought it would be. I really don't want this to bring down my gpa. Is it still possible for me to get at least a B? Or should I drop?",5,3,9.858989825400489,college
Have any of you ever lost a significant scholarship?,"I'm a first year at a state University on a full-tuition scholarship. I'm pretty scared because it requires a 3.3 GPA and I lose it if I go below. I'm taking a 300 level neuroscience class that has me constantly confused and I currently have a C in calc despite having a tutor twice a week, and I'm looking at probably a B in chemistry if things continue the way they have been. I feel like a 3.3 is unrealistic for a first year STEM major because I know a lot of people have a rough first semester, but I guess then again full tuition has high standards. Have any of you gone through this and what did you do after losing it? I'm pretty scared that I'll have to drop out due to finances if I do.",2,9,9.86427917725234,college
What's your favorite class you've taken?,"With all the requirements for my major planned I only have 9 credits planned for next semester (need 12 to be a full time student), so basically I can just take any class next semester that's 3 credits. Just wanted to hear some other people's favorites/what you did in the course for inspiration while I'm researching classes. I'm an economics/marketing major so I'll take suggestions for upper division business courses. Definitely wouldn't mind taking a class outside of my major though just for something different (obviously not any classes that are upper division in a certain major).",10,2,9.868202788363451,college
Should going to court be an excused absence that doesn't hurt my grade?,"I have a court date for a speeding ticket in a month which will cause me to miss one of my classes. I already missed this class twice this semester, once for being sick and the other because I was having an issue with my car. Of course, I didn't know this was going to happen. This is my first ticket I've ever gotten, actually, it was the first time I've ever been pulled over too.

It is a class that relies heavily on attendance. We lose points every time we miss and if we have over two absences we are docked an entire letter grade. That being said, should my court date be an excused absence that doesn't result in the loss of points? I really don't want to be docked an entire letter grade because I have to go to court. I really wish I hadn't already used my two free absences.",5,1,9.871536121696787,college
"People who procrastinated at the start of the semester and got good grades at the end, how did you do it?","I procrastinated at the start now im buried in assignments, deadlines, quizes and midterms are coming up, any help on how to catch on?",10,1,9.873931955030118,college
Which note taking tablet would you recommend?,"I'm trying to move away from paper because I usually take a lot of notes with a lot of diagrams and it all takes too much space at the end of the semester. 

I have seen some of my classmates use an iPad with an apple pen and they are beautiful but I was looking for a more affordable option.

Any recommendations?",1,1,9.89186019577086,college
Definitely bombed my Philosophy exam today. Bummed out,"I took a really hard Philosophy exam today, and i’m pretty sure I failed it. It’s just frustrating because I studied a lot for it, and was thinking i’d do good. 

I’m pretty discouraged right now. How do you guys cheer yourselves up after making a bad grade?",4,1,9.895459732807897,college
Post grad anxiety: missing assignment dreams,"Hi, I was wondering if anyone here has had any dreams or nightmares about missing a deadline for an assignment or project after graduation? I’ve been having these dreams on occasion for the past 2 months.",4,1,9.903515288363453,college
Is it normal to still feel like you haven't really found your place yet a month and a half through the school year?,"I just feel like I'm not having as much fun as I wanted to, like I try to go to parties on the weekends which is cool but during the week and during the day on weekends I feel like I'm always by myself. I'm not meeting any girls in my classes or clubs cause there's not a lot of time to talk to people, I just go and then it's time to leave when they end. I always feel like the only person alone at the dining halls. What do I need to do differently?",24,14,9.907612510585674,college
"Life Pro Tip: To save money and time at college/uni, take college-level exams like CLEPs and DSSTs to fulfill your General Education requirements.","There are so many course topics available (e.g., composition, ethics, geography, algebra, etc.) and they cost a fraction of the price of a course. Beware of placement exams though, those generally will not transfer if you decide to go to another school. On the other hand, CLEPs and DSSTs can be transferred to just about every accredited institution.",3,1,9.90779769577086,college
"When transferring to a new college, will the new college look at your previous college GPA or high school GPA?","I'm sorry, that's the best way I could phrase the question. I couldnt find any answers online.

So, I'm a senior in high school and my overall GPA is 2.33. Yeah.

I plan on going to a community college for two years for free (promise scholarship) and then transferring to another college to pursue a carreer.

Would that second college look at my GPA from my community college, or would they look at my high school GPA?",5,1,9.921350936511601,college
My CC doesn't offer a course I need,"I'm hoping to major in biology, but my CC doesn't offer gen chem 1 in the spring semester, setting my plans back significantly.

&#x200B;

What are my options?",3,1,9.924151862437526,college
Diet help.,I‘ve lost 5 kgs in the last 2 months. How can I have a proper diet with $30 a week?,6,1,9.929036121696786,college
Birthday gift for roommate,I was thinking of getting my roommate a card and putting 25 dollars inside. Is that appropriate?,4,3,9.930193529104193,college
studying,"&#x200B;

i literally do not know how to study. I have been experimenting different learning styles but i haven't seen the right one. If i have an upcoming exam, I plan to study a week before but i end up not doing it or giving up halfway due to stress and not being able to remember stuff. Then the night to the exam, i panic and then pull an all nighter. How can i stop",3,1,9.935459732807896,college
Need some cash,"So I had a hard time getting together some tax info for my FAFSA validation (recently married, wife has never filed) but we're in the clear. Just spent the last of our savings on rent for our apartment and my car payment. 

Since I don't have an exact date for when we're getting our refunds, I'm very hesitant to ask family and friends for money since we're all strapped. 

I do have the option of overdrawing my checking since rent and car are ACH but the money is still available in our account, but I'm hesitant for obvious reasons.

Any ideas on how I can pull together some cash to get new through the next couple of weeks? Gonna sell our Nintendo switch, but we're realistically gonna need more (gas, groceries, utilities and phone). Looks like around 250 after selling the switch.",3,2,9.9357259365116,college
God Tier Professor's,Professor's who post images of the textbook online so you don't have to purchase one. They understand our struggle.,4,2,9.939036121696786,college
Choosing a Graduate School,"Howdy yall, 

Do yall know where someone can go search general statistics of a graduate school? Things like how many get jobs offers, move on to phd programs, funding the school gets and like amount of research produce out of the graduate school?

I am trying to apply to graduate programs and have to convince my parents (they still control aspects of my life, its fine) that FSU is a great graduate program due to them having the magnetics lab, but they will not be sastified without all the statistics. Google just sends me to ranking cites, which honestly gives little information about why they are ranked. Any help be much appreciated",2,1,9.94436019577086,college
Working full time at community,"So next year I will be starting an associates degree in automotive technology at my local community college, taking 12-15 credit hours per quarter. I really would like to work full time (40 hours) as well, and am ready for a challenge.

Is this feasible? I have a good work ethic and time management skills. Even if Sunday is the only day I can truly relax I am fine with that.",4,2,9.947786121696785,college
How do I get the help I need to go back to school?,"So I enrolled in college in Fall of 2015, and took a leave of absence in February of 2017 during the start of my second year. I was struggling pretty heavily with my depression which took control at that point in my life, and I needed to step away from classes to focus on my mental health. I was told false information about taking leave that resulted in me now owing $3,000 (it was a few hundred more but I managed to pay off some) of which I really don’t have and quite frankly, do not feel that I should be obligated to pay due to my circumstances. I’m from a low income family, and I’m struggling as it is to pay back credit card debt ($5,000 worth) and I’m in need of a vehicle on top of that. It hasn’t been easy trying to save money with my current job but I’ve tried like hell the last few months especially. They obviously won’t release the transcripts until it’s paid in full and they won’t allow me to resume classes unless I pay out of pocket. They also dropped the major I was pursuing (Computer Information Systems) so I’m not even sure if I need the transcripts at this point because I decided to change my major to Cybersecurity and I’ve gotten absolutely no where for the last 2 years with this school. They will not help me and have made that clear so I need to figure out what I can do to get back to school someplace else. I know someone else in the same boat at this school who was shunned nearly the same way for getting into a car ACCIDENT and they made it impossible to go back. Please let me know what I should do, who I can go to for help, and if I should be liable to pay this money back??? I feel like I’ve exhausted my options with going to the school for help and I’m so stuck in every sense and downright defeated. Any insight will help",0,1,9.967647232807897,college
Need 2k by December-any potential grants/scholarships?,"I’m a freshman in college this year. 

My tuition and fees are covered by a scholarship I have so all I need to pay are my meal plan and housing. I used FAFSA and got 2,750 each semester and have an additional 1,200 from the Pell Grant. 

The pell grant took a while to come through and I had thought I would get enough to cover my expenses but I still owe an additional 2k each semester. 

I have a job and I’m trying to pay for it out of pocket but it’s stressing me out. I want to avoid taking out a private loan and I was hoping there are some grants/scholarships that might be available still?
Facts that I feel like could help with grants:

My parents are retired and only get 30,000 a year now
I’m Hispanic 
I’m a first generation college student (my older siblings went too idk if that disqualifies me from any “first in family” things but I’m first generation college)
Daughter of a veteran
Female/minority in STEM (premed; my major is biology)

I’ve applied for 4 more scholarships but they won’t pay out (if I even get them) for a few months and I really need the 2k before December - I was hoping a grant might come quicker

If y’all have any questions ask me and I’ll try to answer them!",1,1,9.987392603178266,college
What majors require Calculus 2,"My kid is in an early college program where they earn credits at a community college and graduate HS with an Associate degree. This year they’re taking Calculus 1 I pushed to follow up and take Calculus 2 just in case it’s needed at a university level. I’ve been getting the “NOBODY else is taking Calc 2” story. Now I’m sitting here wondering what might it be needed for? I know we can exclude being a math/science or engineering major, so what else?",9,1,9.98768195503012,college
Starting College,I’m starting college this Sunday as a freshman. I used to be excited at some point now I’m just meh about it. Meh and also nervous at the same time. It’s like this feeling of not wanting to go back to school mixed with nervousness. I’m pretty scared tho and I’d love some advice.,3,2,10.00785556614123,college
Advice for getting into a good university with bad community college grades,"I’m going to try to summarize as much as possible: When I graduate HS in 2015, I took a year break due to my mental health issues (I have debilitating mental illness(es)). When I attempted to take some community college classes the year after, I started off great but shortly after my mental illness kicked in and I was unable to focus on school work and getting to school on time, therefore making many of my grades not so good (some Bs, Cs, and dropouts). Because of my grades I lost access to the financial aid I was provided. Even though I felt like I grasped the material I was learning and could produce good results, I just wasn’t in the right headspace (I had an English teacher say I would have passed the class with flying colors if I would have attended more frequently). Anyways, fast forward to now- I’m doing a lot better and have changed a lot about my mindset and goals. How do I start from here? I have some interest, as a 22 year old, to build back my grades and transcript but where should I continue, especially since I have my sights set on attending a university soon (within the next year or a half). Any suggestions would be amazing. Thanks for reading!
PS: I had great HS grades, but I know those don’t count anymore,",1,1,10.011478251326416,college
How often do you skip class and still maintain your grades?,"I was NEVER a skipper especially in CC when attendance was taken. I probably had perfect attendance in almost every class. But now that my schedule is lowkey out of control (43 hours a week with class, work, and my research lab combined—not even including homework), I feel like something’s gotta give and maybe I should skip what I can where I can, just to give myself some much needed alone time at home. 

I do think attending the lecture is important in some of my classes because sometimes the slides can be vague, but I was also considering reading the textbook on the days I skip to fill myself in and hope for the best. Idk if y’all have a particular skipping strategy that works for you and is successful. 

So how often is it “safe” to skip to the point where it doesn’t affect your grade? Just generally speaking, as I know it can depend on the class. I aim for A’s.",9,3,10.028121769844935,college
How much effort should we put into reading the textbook for GEs?,"I'm a freshman so I have no idea. In my history GE, were required to read 50-100 pages a week.

Should I go all in, reading each sentence and taking notes?

Or is this something I can just leisurely read without taking notes and such?",2,0,10.03836482540049,college
"If I got a degree in biology, what could I do with that?","I keep looking around online, and I'm not really sure what it is I exactly want to do after college. I just know I enjoy science and learning about the world around me. But I'm not sure what kind of job this could potentially get me?",4,1,10.041408806881972,college
I feel guilty for saying I’m a first generation college student,"I’m a student at a UC school and I’ve gotten some really great research opportunities - partially I believe because I have been filling out my applications saying I’m a first generation college student and have received the pell grant.

While the rest of my family is decently educated, neither of my parents finished college. However after they divorced my dad remarried when I was 8 to a woman who teaches high school English and later got her PhD in education (or something like that) online. I split time equally between my parents evenly growing up. Since I was on my moms taxes I also qualified for financial aid my first two years of community college until she got remarried as well (also someone with a degree). 

Since these applications ask me the education level of my parents (with space only for 2) and if I have received any financial aid while in college I answer the questions honestly... but I still feel like I’m cheating or lying since there are probably other students whose situations better reflect the meaning of a low income/first generation student and I may be stealing these opportunities. 

On the other hand, my step mothers education hasn’t been very helpful for me in science - but she did help me with applying for college. 

Am I being immoral for accepting these opportunities since I don’t feel my circumstances have disadvantaged me in particular?",2,3,10.042994455030119,college
"Older, married students! Did you go away to college? Or did you stick close to home?","For you older adult students who are already married and have life and families and things going on, how did you go about going to college?

Did you apply anywhere (out-of-state or away) and plan to stay there without your spouse? Was your spouse going to move with you? Or did you deliberately pick a college that was close to home? How did you decide which to do? Was your spouse understanding?

My husband received his Bachelor's because his college had an excellent adult program with many online options. For my major, I am not seeing a lot of programs I like in the immediate area, but over in the next state there are really up-to-date programs with concentrations that are more suited to what I want to be working with and studying. But leaving off to go to a dorm or something in another state without my husband somehow feels....wrong? Childish? Selfish? Weird? I don't know.

Looking to see if any of you are in the same boat and what you did. Thanks.",2,2,10.04834167725234,college
What could I go back for?,"I started community college in 2016 and finished earlier this year. Took me 3 years instead of 2 because I was working on too of that. I now have my associates in applied science in welding production. My interests have changed and I do not intend to find a career in welding.

I now work a 9-5 that's pays me pretty good for my area. I just wonder if there's more out there for me. Does have an associates in applied science help for anything if I tried to go to a 4 year?",3,0,10.059452788363451,college
Probably gonna fail accounting and I'm pissed about it,"Ive been a good student my whole life.  Always struggled in math, but never have I failed a class.  Accounting has made me physically angry and upset more times than I can count this semester.  Three or more homework assignments each week, 8+ hours spent on said assignments, and all I have to show for it is copy-paste answers from chegg and like an 80 average.  Professor doesnt teach ANYTHING in class, just meticulously  goes over tiny aspects that ARENT EVEN ON THE ASSIGNMENTS.  Our midterm is on Thursday and I'm positive I will fail along with many of my classmates.  I hate this so much.  I dont know how I'm gonna pass this exam, let alone the course.  Theres no way in hell I would ever wanna take it again so I just feel hopeless at this point.  My major has nothing to do with accounting anyways so I just dont see the point.  Thanks for coming to my TED talk.",2,3,10.06285556614123,college
I was in a group of 4 for a class assignment and threw 2 people from my group under the bus. Am I wrong?,"We had a group assignment today in my computer science class and it was only me and one other person who finished the assignment the other two were watching twitch. So once the assignment was completed we could go home but I told the professor that me and other did all of the work so she made the other 2 of my group stay and do it themselves. Andnow I’m feeling bad. 

My intention was not to be a dick by any means it was to help them because they immediately Said they don’t understand any of the assignment and started watching twitch (it was basic coding that they should already know). So I felt like by just me and the other guy doing it was actually hurting them I tried to involve them but they just refused so when we showed the prof the assignment I told her it was just me and the other guy and she made",4,3,10.06439491799308,college
How did you know what to major in?,,4,2,10.068665751326416,college
"Lost in life... want to be creative for a living, but money issues imminent... (Money vs Passion, sort of?)","Title. **No simple TL;DR, read if you’re willing.** This is a long post, but very, deeply important to me.

So basic info: live in Cali, Central Valley. Currently finishing an AA for Transfer in English. At the risk of tooting my own horn too much, my grades are great and make me very desirable. And I have an okay bit of extracurricular stuff and decent essay skills to make a good application to all but the most top-tier colleges.

If you want to know what my passion is, what makes me happy and joyful in life: writing. At the moment it’s mostly limited to fanfiction, but I have found a profound love of storytelling. Ever since I was a kid, I’ve always been fascinated by stories, by making them up, finding them in odd places, just being creative in general. I can’t properly type out how deep this passion runs. Of course, I would love to start working on original stuff as well.

**To get this out of the way: what’s my ultimate career goal?** To one day be the head writer of (thing). Said thing could be anything from TV shows, to web shows (Think Rooster Teeth sort of web shows), video games, possibly movies, etc. The stuff that I grew up on. Just to be a creative lead/head writer for an original IP for me would be a glorious dream come true.

So the issue? Sort of a money v passion thing.

I have no fucking clue where to go from here. As of me typing this it is Oct. 7, and College applications here in Cali run from Oct 1 to Nov 30. I won’t bore you with my life story but: I am sick and tired of this hometown. Its… fine, but I want out. I graduated in 2016, I’ve waited long enough, i’m tired of failing (I’ve been to college before, long story as to what failed). I want to get it right this time. I can’t stand another year living here, partly due to financial reasons. That is off the table.

I’m looking for advice as to how to proceed here, from anybody who can help. The truth is, my financial situation is not great, I can’t keep relying on my parents much longer. I desperately need to be able to sustain myself, and to get a career where I can get by without constantly asking for money.

The money option: I’ve always liked planes and birds and just aerodynamical stuff, so early on in my life, engineer was an interesting career option. Maybe designing flying things of some sort, or vehicles, since I do love fast cars. And aero engineers are something usually in pretty high demand, so I’m confident that with dedication, this could land me a nice job and sustain me. 

The passion option: Engineering is fine, tolerable, but it would never truly bring me happiness or satisfaction in my existence. In my life, I’ve found that when I truly feel amazing and fulfilled as a human being is when I publish a story people like, or one where people take the time to comment and critique. This is what drives me, this is what makes me feel alive and meaningful. So studying for a writing degree of some kind seems good. Maybe Screenwriting, or is that too limited to film? Is Creative Writing too vague? No idea, but something along those lines. To just fully embrace this passion and go find a career in it.

Bullet points:

-Engineer almost guarantees (with enough dedication) a well-paying career, Writing does not. Especially in CA, very saturated market, lots of financial instability. I don’t want to die both penniless AND with broken dreams.
-Like I mentioned, I love to write, but it’s a very “Raw” skill atm. It’s not terrible, I don’t think, but I’m someone who excels when I have some sort of guidance/a teacher. Hence why I usually do great at school. Having instruction to refine my skills is where I do my absolute best.

-Why study engineering? Well… it’s going to be difficult to get a job in such a high-tech field without a degree, isn’t it? And again, pays pretty decently.

-Why study writing? Many famous writers don’t at all have degrees, so why study it in college? Because to me, college would have two functions: One, to refine my raw skill into something polished and exceptional. Two, and perhaps most critically: help me connect and network. Help me start to get a foot in that industry, help me meet people I can network with, get my name out there as a promising student, get those internships, get maybe some freelance work, which can turn into a professional career, where I could one day pitch my own ideas to people who now know me.

So there. I’m utterly torn, and I’ve got two months to decide. I want, with all my heart, to pursue this passion, but I need financial stability, my parents aren’t getting any younger and can’t keep helping for much longer. I’ve got no idea what kind of degree to pursue, what career paths I have, just this distant dream that is the sum of all I’ve desired, of what makes me feel happy and fulfilled. But in a world this cold and harsh… money makes it go around, and I can’t be the struggling artist living off his parents.

This haunts my every waking hour as the decision looms. No idea what I can do, what I should do. I’ve tried to talking to 2 or 3 academic counselors, but most give very general or vague advice. They’re focused on getting me into a college: it’s a bit hard to describe this huge life story and my long-term concerns.

If you made it through this, you’re an amazing person, thank you. Not used to people caring this much about my problems.

Summary questions:

-Money or passion?
-If I chose money, what could I do to also further my writing career/education at the same time?
-If I chose passion, what kind of jobs could a degree in writing (And more important, the networking I could do in college) get me? Something sustainable, or something that could be a step to my eventual goal I mentioned?

I’ll try to answer any questions you have as soon as I can, so shoot.",5,1,10.085019917993082,college
Changing Majors: Electrical Engineering to Psychology,"Hey guys,

I am a rising sophomore at the University of Maine and I am currently studying Electrical Engineering. Over the past few months (including previous semesters), my interest in this subject has been dwindling away and I really felt like I was on a path to a career that I wouldn't be interested in. Recently, I have been doing some real thinking, and I believe I am finally ready to make a switch.

Psychology has always been something I've been interested in. While I wouldn't go as far as to call it a passion, I definitely think it would a much better fit for me. I understand that careers in that field don't pay nearly as much as one in EE would, but I am honestly okay with that. I've never really been one to live outside my means. 

All this of course leads to a few questions:

Would making such a drastic change in my major look bad on my college transcript?

I have taken several math, chemistry, and physics classes, I know it depends on the school, but would any of those be useful?

Would old high school AP credits also transfer?

Is it hard to find a decent paying job with a ?masters degree in psychology?

Any other advice would be greatly appreciated. I apologize for the density of this post, but there is just so much uncertainty. 

Thanks guys!",1,1,10.087276862437527,college
Scholarships when transferring back,"So I'm an international student. I studied at a uni with 70% scholarship (was paying ~9k$/sem). After 1 year I moved to CC. It's my third semester here in CC and now I'm miserble. Got depression, anxiety, etc. I'm thinking of moving back to my first uni. But I don't know if I still have the old scholarships or do i have to apply, write essays everything from scratch? I know it's a stupid question but I'm so desperate to transfer away from here. Could anybody give me some advice?",4,1,10.095448158733822,college
Free online academic advisor?,"Hi I’m just wondering if there’s free online academic advising? I need some advice and my academic advisor from my current school isn’t someone I want to talk to, we don’t get along. 

If that exists at all please let me know. Thank you.",4,1,10.099857880956044,college
I’m done with CS. I hate anything engineering/computers. What other options do I have left?,"If I have to look at code one more damn time or look at a engineering problem I’m going to end myself.

It’s not that I’m lazy. I fucking hate it. “Major in CS!” Everyone says. Sure, you’ll make a good living, but who the hell wants to code all fucking day? Nothing against CS majors, but I feel like I would hate it. 

Hell, I already do! I work at a tech company and HATE it. 

I’m halfway done with school (finished gen Ed’s, taken 2 engineering classes and 3 cs classes)

I’m thinking about switching majors.

Budgeting/money and the business side of companies interests me. Maybe accounting or finance. But I’m worried about work/life balance that those careers have.",10,10,10.115066214289378,college
Do you prefer making group projects with friends or with classmates you don't know?,"Hey,

I just wanted to ask this sub something, based on your opinion or personal experience.

**What do you think about sticking with friends you already know when you have a group project** vs. **doing it with other classmates you don't know at all**? Can you share your experience, any little stories?

Personally I prefer making a group with people I don't know. After my first year where I teamed up with a friend, I realized friends can be very annoying in group projects. My friend didn't know how to calculate a simple average, asked me to ""just tell her everything she has to do and she will do it"" and when I did, she understood the literal opposite of what I asked her to do. When it was about the project it was easy for us to get mad at each other, so obviously we probably would've been better off if we were in different groups for the remaining time of our friendship.

Honestly I wish any of my group projects we were randomly assigned to groups. I recently had to make/join a group again and my closest college friends quickly asked me to join them. I dodged them until I joined a group to claim ""I'm already taken"", mostly because I know them and I think they don't work hard enough or they're not passionate enough about the subject. They're not bad people, it's just that.

At least if I get teammates that don't work hard now, it'll be a stranger and I could just cut contact after the project is done and I won't have anyone to blame except my luck. I also love getting to know new people, and group projects are a perfect opportunity for that. The only ""hard"" part is that I have to approach classmates and ask if they want to form a group.",3,1,10.12785556614123,college
hobbies for college students besides homework??,"lately I’ve been finding that my days consist mostly of classes, homework, or work (I’m a writing tutor).  Clubs on campus are mainly career-focused. :( Any ideas for unique hobbies a college student can do??

also, I’m not a sports person, though I enjoy exercising.",18,23,10.140320843919008,college
How to have a discussion with a professor about class expectations,"Come context: I am currently taking Physics 2 under a professor who is new to the university (not new to teaching though) and on probation (since 50% of her students last semester scored a 60% or under) something I knew ahead of time but since she's the only professor teaching it so there wasn't anyway around it. It became very clear to me as to why so many struggled as within the first lecture her general disorganization and ineffective explanations of already challenging subjects made it impossible to understand what was happening. Since that first day I knew I was going to need to fire on all cylinders to pass this class. I spent a lot of time outside of class trying to absorb the material by reading the text book, watching videos and attending tutoring almost every day. I did all the homework legitimately (which alone took about 20 hours per assignment) and was really giving this class everything. I had met other students and discussed their experience in the class and they all described almost identical experiences to mine. But, we buckled down and formed a study group to coordinate our efforts in an attempt to streamline our learning experience. We all seriously prepared for our first midterm but it seemed almost futile in retrospect as no one I know felt remotely okay about the exam. Some left entire pages blank it was so much more difficult than what we had seen prior. I feel like my group and I did everything we could to prepare for this exam and we all still probably failed. Unfortunately, she is not a believer in curves.

Now with that out of the way, I would like to ask how to go about having a conversation with the professor about her expectations for this class. There is no syllabus for this class, which makes this challenging. I was planning on emailing her to see if we could arrange a time to meet one on one to discuss how to be successful in her class. Though, I honestly don't trust myself not to just rant about it since I feel like I've already done everything I could have done. Should I tell her everything I said above (obviously remove anything that could personally offend her)? How do I do that without sounding overly negative/critical of her teaching? I feel like if I just straight up ask her how to be successful I'll just get the same answer she told us the first day, ""This class is really like a part time job, treat it as such."" which I've already been doing with little success.

Any thoughts how to go about this productively?

&#x200B;

I had posted this on r/Engineeringstudents and they were just shocked theres no syllabus, I am looking for advice on how to have this discussion before its too late.",3,2,10.14797130688197,college
"My roommate has his girlfriend over every day and I don't know how to approach him about limiting it, can someone give me some advice?","So I've been in college for a little over a month now and since the first night I moved in, I could probably count the number of nights my roommate's girlfriend wasn't here on one hand. I think she's a cool person but lately they've started spending pretty much every available second in our room, and lately it's really been getting on my nerves that I don't seem to have any personal space. Me and my roommate aren't that close and we don't talk a whole bunch and I really don't want to come across as a controlling dick but I feel like since she doesn't pay for our room she isn't entitled to be here as much as she is. She's also there when he's not and lately I think they've been skipping class so they can lay in bed together all day. Also I went home over the weekend and when I came back this weekend my blankets were not how I leave them, there was some substance on my desk (I think it was mayo) that I didn't leave there, and some of my stuff was pushed off to the side so her laptop could be there. So I'm also starting to feel disrespected. I just don't know how to approach this. (Also side note: a couple weeks ago I had to talk to him about not having sex when im there since there was multiple times I got woken up by them fucking, I don't know if I needed to include that but I figured it might give some insight into my situation. Im just really starting to get at my wits end about this and I don't know what to do. 


Sorry if my format is bad, I'm on mobile and this is probably pretty ramblely.

Tl;Dr: My roommate has his girlfriend over every day and I don't know how to approach him to get it to end.",7,6,10.164244455030119,college
Physics,Ok so the school year started and I think I have a D in physics 1 (the professor hasn't posted any grades yet) I would need a B to transfer into an engineering school. Is it possible to get a B by the end if the semester or should I just drop it?,3,1,10.173943529104193,college
Should I feel guilty for having my education paid for?,"I want to preface this by saying I'm not looking for pity. I understand that I'm extremely fortunate and am only looking for feedback, even if I don't like it. 

My parents aren't outrageously wealthy, but they've managed to save enough to cover all of my expenses at an in state school for 4 years. I work during the summers and am looking for part time work during the year in hopes of covering my housing independently, but it's just to ease my conscience. If I wanted, I could fuck around for 4 years on their dollar.

I'm trying my absolute best to make the most of this gift, but I feel incredibly guilty for having been dealt such a good hand. I hate that there are smart people out there who will never realize their potential because they don't have what I do. I also feel like it invalidates my success. I was considered smart in high school and have managed to maintain a high GPA in college, but I can't help but wonder if these things would still be true if I were poor. Do I deserve any credit for my success? Or do I owe it to a reduced pool of competition and a home environment conducive to academic advancement?  Do I have anything to feel bad about?

That being said, can anyone offer perspective? Is there something I haven't considered in this, or am I right?",10,2,10.17904769577086,college
Drop from biology bachelors for associates degree? Are associates degrees useful? Other options?," I'm currently a sophomore (third semester here) and I'm stressed of everything. I'm doing biology bachelors with ecology concentrations (which I hear from most other people is pretty much a useless degree, so I've been considering dropping out despite my love for nature and wildlife).

Here's the deal: I most likely see myself dropping out or doing something else later down the line because I simply can't see myself doing another 3-4 years of this. At the same time, I don't want to live in an apartment within a trashy ghetto. I'm not asking for a huge salary, all I want is a small house of my own within a decent, non-trashy neighborhood (I want to move out of my current state, somewhere nice and quiet, away from any big cities), with a job I atleast semi-enjoy (tolerate). I'll probably live alone but my brother and I may end up being roommates if we actually agree on a place/find jobs close to eachother.

Question is, what am I supposed to do? I wouldn't mind finding an associates degree or trade for something I'm interested in as long as it won't just be another useless degree. Are associates degrees even worth anything? I see some people say they're about as useful as a liberal arts degree and others say it's the best decision they've ever made, making great salaries. Or should I just drop out and hope to god I can find a decent paying job with no degree?

**TLDR;** Fed up with college (doing biology bachelors currently). Is it worth dropping this to pursue an associates degree? If so, which degrees are both interesting/enjoyable and make enough money to move out and buy a house of my own (nothing fancy or big, I just want one in a good neighborhood at least)? Any other options?",4,4,10.185702788363452,college
"Room mate is probably transferring, what should I do with the extra space?","My roommate is most likely transferring to another school for the spring and I need to figure out what to do with the extra space. I'm gonna put our beds together to make a king and I already have decorations on my side of the room.

&#x200B;

By the way our school doesn't accept spring transfers so I'm most likely not getting another roomie",17,36,10.198017603178268,college
Transferring from a small Private University to a Large State University?,"Hi everyone, I currently go to a small private school in California. While I enjoyed the university itself, I struggled a bit more in that there was a lack of community given that I’m from Hawaii. I loved the professors and intimate small classes but I do believe a larger school can offer more. If you have experience with a similar transfer, what can you say about it? Any pros and cons?

EDIT: The current school I’m enrolled at is largely a commuter school and everyone goes home for the weekend. The school I’m looking at is in a college town and everyone practically lives there.",3,12,10.202080103178268,college
How do you organize all the homework tasks you have to work on?,,17,2,10.217022232807897,college
"Is the ""National Society of Academic Excellence"" legit?","I just received an email from them asking me to join. I had never heard of them before so of course I did research on them, only to find little to nothing. The only source being their website which in all honesty seems pretty bare and sketchy. Are they the real deal?",6,5,10.218758343919008,college
Should I skip my exam today?,I have no clue what I am doing and my exam is in 3 hours. The teacher drops the lowest grade.,30,0,10.282218992067156,college
How do you feel about being close to graduation?,I’ve only got a year of university left. Are you prepared or unprepared for it? What are your plans after graduating? Anything you wish you did better? Any regrets? I‘ve found it so hard to make close friends that I’ve kinda given up on meeting new people.,32,63,10.294742140215304,college
What's the protocol for 3d printing in college?,Like do you need to make an appointment or just walk in?,13,9,10.332554640215305,college
How much did you save for college?,"As the title says. I'm coming close to graduation and I'm kinda nervous because I don't have as much money saved up I would like. I currently have about $8,000 in my savings.

If I had a part-time job in college with a salary of $1,000 per month and occasional help from family with utilities and bills, would this be enough? I want to hear your story.",11,8,10.33518195503012,college
Homesick Sophomore,"I'm about six weeks into my sophomore year of college and I still feel homesick. It's at its peak when I come back from a weekend at home and lasts about four to five days before tapering off. During this time though, I feel unmotivated, antisocial, anxious, and depressed. 

I know this is probably a normal thing to feel after spending time at home, but I just wanted to put my thoughts into words. A weird habit I need to get out of is always wanted to be elsewhere. That is: when I am at college, I am dying to go home. I carry on with my daily tasks, but internally I have a ""clock/countdown"" until the next time that I can leave. Finally, when it is that time to leave to go home for the weekend, I get a little sad because I feel like I am missing out. Once at home, I have to convince myself that it was a good idea to leave for a bit. 

I don't know if this is normal, but I just feel as if I'm caught in a state of limbo. I never feel like I fully can settle into where I am at. I want to be at home when I am at school, but when I am home I feel as if I should be at school. If anyone has some words of advice it would be greatly appreciated!",13,9,10.337114825400489,college
What study strategies should I use for reviewing / taking notes in a math course?,"Hi,

I'm using a book called Developmental Mathematics ([https://www.amazon.com/Developmental-Mathematics-9th-Marvin-Bittinger/dp/0321997174](https://www.amazon.com/Developmental-Mathematics-9th-Marvin-Bittinger/dp/0321997174)). I've been having trouble recalling the material and have been doing what's called cramming The usual way I study is taking notes on each section and then going onto the next section. I'm using the book for my remedial algebra class. The professor in my class also assigns homework for each section we go over in class. The site for the book is mymathlab.com I also study for about an hour and a half or longer. Any advice. Once I get a reply I'll post my schedule I made for my other two classes along with this class. Thanks.",4,4,10.341269917993081,college
Roommate problems (f/19),"So I live in a dorm that has 4 people with 2 rooms. I caught one of my roommates using my cups and plates as she had them in the microwave. I didn't say anything because she was in her room and I didn't want to argue this early in the morning. I've had many problems with my roommates like how they don't want to lock the outside door and my personal roommate has a loud ass alarm in the morning and when I asked her to turn it down nicely , she didn't. Idk what to do except for putting my name of my cups. Any ideas?

We also didn't make a roommate contract because no one (my other roommates) wanted to come out of their rooms the first night.",8,1,10.37404769577086,college
How do you keep track of everything?,Hi! I transferred to a new university with better career services and student organizations. I’ve been getting a lot of good advice and I haven’t been writing any of it down. Do you guys keep track of anything like this? I feel like one day I’ll want to look back at stuff like this. I was thinking about making some sort of college guide with all of the tips I get but I don’t know how I’d do it.,9,9,10.381628714289379,college
If I bombed my freshman year of highschool am I still ok?,My average grade last year was about a C-. But this year ive kicked it into gear and my GPA rn (not counting my freshman grades just sophomore) is a 3.7. If i maintain a 3.7 or get a little higher for my next 2 years of highschool can i still get into a pretty good school?,4,2,10.392982880956046,college
How do I find out local government aid for tuition costs?,^,2,1,10.416397232807896,college
are the all nighters worth it?,,5,4,10.42330695503012,college
How do you remember more content than you think possible,"Serious Question. What techniques or methods can I use to absorb more content than seems possible? (..and still be able to regurgitate it on a quiz.) The class is Human Anatomy and I’m struggling to study all of the material and end up forgetting a lot of it! 

All replies are appreciated",4,1,10.42486945503012,college
I need to know some tips on procrastination.,"I have terrible procrastination and am drowning in school work right now. It’s my freshman year in college and I love it, but I have a terrible school work ethic. I have a job every other weekend as a nurse tech at a local assisted living facility and my work ethic there is completely fine. I just can’t seem to see why I never do my homework when I need to. I need help please.",3,6,10.428376399474562,college
what advice do ya'll have for people still in high school??,,5,0,10.447693529104193,college
Physics vs Chemistry,"Hello

I’d like to hear the opinions of someone knowledgeable on the matter of Physics vs Chemistry as a major. 



I find “conceptual physics” incredibly interesting. I love watching YouTube videos, reading pop-science books on physics,... basically, I’m an “armchair physicist”. I’m absolutely garbage at maths, unfortunately. 


I’m not as interested in chemistry, but it’s the next best thing for me, I guess. My uni is really soft on maths in chemistry, so it more of a realistic goal for me. 


I’ve already finished a bachelors in humanities, so I have the “maturity” required to study hard and independently. I now have one year before the start of the next school year, of which I have some free time to study maths.


Do you think I should swallow my pride and accept that the maths aspect of physics is too much for me, and go for chemistry, which is less interesting to me?",6,3,10.481339362437527,college
Specialising for a job or doing what I like?,"Im a third year Electrical and Electronic Engineering student. This will be my degree at the end of my 4 years course.

Job opportunities are better if I specialise in electronics and software side of my degree, however I enjoy electrical engineering more and I am better at it (according to my performance in exams).

As I am writing resumés and CVs right now, I am requested to put down my grades and performances, modules related to the field, etc etc. However I have limited things to show in regards of software and programming. This raises a question of whether I should take up more programming modules in order to have better experience in those field and perform worse in them than I would in electrical modules (probably getting worse grade contributions towards my degree) or should I stick to what interests me and what I am good at?",0,2,10.59305232540049,college
Get diagnosed with a condition that makes sleeping very difficult. Is it possible to stop in the middle of the semester due to medical conditions?,"I need to be absolutely exhausted to be able fall asleep now. Anxiety makes the condition worse and is accentuated by the fact that I can only sleep 3-4 hours a day. 
I need to have a 4.0 GPA to transfer in my Junior year, and I'm not sure if I'll be able to knowing how weak mentally and physically I am at the moment. I've been perfectly healthy all my life and bam, this happens. I'm in my freshman year. 
I want to stop this semester to be able to treat my condition properly, but at the same time I don't want to destroy my grades or lose all my money (no financial aid, paid out of pocket).

EDIT: I actually meant ""got"" in the title, sorry. Lying in bed right now sleepy, but can't sleep because my lungs don't let me :)",3,1,10.605147232807896,college
What should I do? I need help.,"I have this problem where I was not able to do my national high school Equivalency to apply for local colleges, and that requires me to do 7 SAT subject tests (I am not American) . I did 6 and I tried to do the 7th before graduation, which was an AP exam, but I failed the test and was late. my only option was to take the last SAT test that they had available and that I took classes for in High school , which was World History . 

Now I did not take that exam in May or June because I was not ready and didn't study for it, and now the closest day for the test is in December, and that became my plan. 

But a chance for me to study in a military college came up from a government program that they do to hire people in the military in positions that they need. So if they need engineers, they would send a very limited number of students to study engineering in these military colleges in the United States. They required the student to speak English well and had Intrest in working with the military. I applied, and they required me to get them an equivalency, which I was working on. But I was also required to do an SAT with assay test and a TOEFL exam. 

Here comes the Issue, the only registration date for the SAT was In December, the same date which I was planning on taking World History to do the equivalency, and I can't take both exams on the same day, which meant that I had to change my plan and take another exam which is U.S History in November, which Is a very short time period to study for a subject that I didn't take classes for and know nothing about, Just so I could continue with my military college application. 

Or I could ditch my chance to apply for the military college, and just go with the first plan and apply for a regular University locally. 

Keep in mind that I worked very hard and went with all the procedures required for my US military college application, and it would be a waste of money and time if I decide to not take the required exams.

So what should I do? Take the World History test in December and just do the equivalency and apply for a local University? 
Or push my self to study the U.S history test in November, which is one month from now, and also do both the SAT and TOEFL exams?",1,2,10.608607880956045,college
College changed major requirements in the midst of me applying,"So I’ve been sitting in the marketing major at my school but I’ve been taking the required classes for the analytics major which is a new major within the business school. All business majors have the same foundation courses so I’ve been taking those + in addition to one class this quarter that contributes towards my economics minor. As of spring quarter, I was told I needed to get a B or higher in my statistics class in which I’ve earned a B+ and then fill out a change of major form to get into the analytics major. Now, I filled out the form when this school year started and definitely before this past Thursday when they sent out the email to every business student about how the requirements to get into analytics have changed. Now it is required that you must pass calculus with a B or higher, I failed calculus at school but I passed business calculus at a community college over the summer with a B so I received credit for it. The second requirement is that I need to get a B or higher in my statistics class, in which I got a B+. Finally, the final requirement is that my gpa must be a 3.0 or above. My gpa is a 2.87 and this is likely to rise to a 3.0 or above by the end of this quarter. I struggled a lot during my freshman year and I’m recovering from that by learning how to study effectively and so far that’s been an upward trend as I went from probation to dean’s list. This definitely raises a red flag for those who will view my application because I’m not even meeting the gpa requirement. In the email sent out, it says that even if you meet the requirements, it doesn’t mean you can start the analytics classes/be accepted this year. I am currently a junior with no room to fit extra classes or to stay another two years due to financial aid. I am trying to graduate by next year and I just feel so lost with all this change going on. I’m meeting with my advisor tomorrow to see what I can do but my argument is that I pretty much met the requirements (and turned in the change of major form)  before this new requirement information was made public.

Edit: I don’t know if I would be held to the catalog requirements because this major was created during early sophomore year or late freshman year.",1,1,10.628225936511601,college
College without Microwaves,"My school doesn’t allow microwaves in the dorm. There’s only one in my whole building and it’s 3 floors down from me. It usually has a line to even use the thing, keeping me away from it.

Does anyone know of a way around this?
Also, why do they even restrict microwaves? It seems kind of like an essential part of dorm life..",9,2,10.674927325400489,college
How bad is missing an essay?,I had an essay due today (given one day to work on it) and I had such a horrible day from work to home I just passed out and did nothing. I feel horrible about it. I've done all other essays and assignments before this. How fucked am I? Essays are about 20% of my grade I think?,3,1,10.698087047622712,college
How do you approach your professor about grading?,"To make a long story short I bit off way more than I could chew this semester. I'm in pretty serious danger of failing this class that I need to pass. If I don't pass this class, I lose a big chunk of my financial aid and I won't be able to pay for classes next semester. 

I was going to go into my professor's office hours this week and talk to him, but what do I say? I've never gone and tried to argue/beg for grading before because I figured professors would only hate you for it, but I have no other option because I'm 110% fucked if I don't pass.",2,1,10.699869455030118,college
Going paperless? Discussion,"About to finish first year and want to go paperless, how do you organise all you’re notes/study/flash cards/assignments?

Either digital or physical, interested to hear how others organise it, personally I have started digitising everything, so far I have an iCloud folder called “University” and inside are more folders with the subjects I take, and inside those e.g biology I have notes from lectures named “Lecture 1” etc then another folder for assignments/essay work.",3,1,10.71061019577086,college
Teared Up in Front of My Professor... Am I Overreacting?," I'm a new student here and like most new students, I have no idea what I'm doing. I went to go speak with one of my professors, in an attempt to take on an extra project in her class. Now I admit I'm quite intimidated by authority and it's been a problem for me my entire life. Anyway, she said no at first because of her busy schedule but she said she could be convinced. I had basically decided right there and then that I was not going to try to inconvenience her, and was going to give up. But she kept prodding, trying to get me to convince her and was telling me that I needed to put my water bottle down (I was fidgeting), straighten my back, and gain some confidence, and that I was never going to be able to talk to the faculty, with the way I was doing. She made these comments in the nicest way possible and I know she was just trying to give me realistic advice and have me face the truth but I couldn't help but feel like I was being insulted. I started tearing up on her and she could probably tell. Once I left her office, I immediately started hyperventilating and sobbing for 45 minutes. People always say to visit office hours and that the professors are harmless, but after this experience, I never want to step foot in an office again. I'm obviously not prepared for university and its professionalism as I never gained an ounce of determination and self-respect over the years. My friend believes she shouldn't have talked to me that way but I guess I'm looking for others to agree with me. So if you could be on my side, that'd be amazing. Thanks for reading :-)",5,5,10.718144917993083,college
:( repetitive bad grade,"I’m taking hist1510 and my professor has only given us three assignment, all worth 50-100 points each. I study hard and pay attention in class but he keeps giving me low scores. I asked if I could do any make up work which he has declined. He’s a dick and before I handed in an essay I asked if he could read over it to make sure I was on the right track, he said yes but never got around to it. Alas he gave me 83% for the 100 pt assignment. How can I get through to him? I’m not a bad student, i have close to 100% in all of my other classes (I’m taking 18 credits).",6,2,10.737635658733822,college
Should I Prioritize Academics or Money from a Job with my circumstances?,"Should I Prioritize Academics or Money from a Job with my circumstances? I'm 21 years old, and have been out of high school for 2 years now. I plan on attending community college for 2 years before transferring to a 4 year university. My two years are covered with scholarships at this community college, fortunately! On to a less fortunate circumstance, I've forgotten so much of everything I learned in elementary, middle and high school.

&#x200B;

I'm currently working a full time job, and I have very little drive to study after work or even before work. The only days I study are the weekends, and it's hard to relearn everything I forgot. I applied to be a college student in Fall 2020, and was wondering if I should work next summer(June - August), or spend the summer with a couple of friends and try to get myself in the grooves of academics? I'd lose out on approximately $3000 by not working the summer, and I worry sometimes that $3000 might be too much of a hit. At the moment, I've cut back on many of my expenses and saving most of my income while working full time.

&#x200B;

In your opinion and experience, should I prioritize relearning during the summer via Khan Academy, or spend the summer working, and studying on the weekends? I'm really worried that I won't be ready for any of the college level classes at my current academic level. Thank you, and I look forward to hearing back from everyone!",2,1,10.738492140215303,college
the college experience,"the idea on going to college to experience a new chapter in life is exciting. Compared to community college, you’re hopefully away from your parents, now to be on-campus with other students. How do you think it has played out for you? Is it worth the extra cash to you for the college experience?",2,1,10.748561584659749,college
What should I do to find direction in life?,"I am so ashamed of being a 3rd year in college and not having a clue as to what the next step is. I feel like half the people I talked to told me I ""had time"" to figure out what my passion is (around freshman and sophomore year) and the other half said ""wtf are you doing you have to know now or you're fucked"". I am lost and feeling really stupid for wasting my time but then again I feel like I'd be wasting my time by not being in school finishing something at least. I went in as a psych major and have just been working to finish that because I have no direction in life. Idk just wondering if anyone has any advice or feels the same way. I want to be something and do something, but I don't know what and I'm running out of time.",2,3,10.755262973548637,college
if i talk to a counselor at my school is there any way i can get an extension on due dates?,it’s been a really shitty week. my cousin died and i had a really rough breakup that’s left me pretty much unable to do my schoolwork to the best of my ability and i already received a 2 day extension on most of my work but i still can’t do it. i don’t know what to do,2,2,10.761593992067155,college
"Anyone else think that ""random"" dorm fire alarms aren't necessarily random?","I swear, it seems every week there's a fire alarm going off at some point during the day in almost every dorm. Usually excused as burnt popcorn or a kid being stupid. It also seems that every time one of these alarms go off, a kid on every floor gets busted for weed or alcohol or worse.

I know that a firefighter goes through every dorm to make sure no one stayed in bed or their room during the drill.

But is it possible that this is just a conspiracy to hide random room searches?",6,9,10.799117140215303,college
How to read a textbook efficiently?,I keep reading my textbooks but it is taking me 7-10 hours to finish one chapter. I’m taking pretty detailed notes because I can’t determine what info is important and what isn’t so I just wrote down most of it but it’s taking too long and I don’t think I’m retaining most of it.,4,2,10.809603251326415,college
How to write a 4-page introduction for a research paper?,"I've never written essays more than 3 pages long. In most of my classes, we have a 20 research page paper due at the end of the semester. My classes are breaking this paper up into multiple assignments, where we write 4-5 pages and turn it in and at the end of the semester we mesh them all together and turn it in as our 20 page essay. 

I have absolutely no idea how to write something like this. I'm planning on going to some of my professor's office hours and asking for help but I was wondering what you guys do to write these type of essays. I have no idea how to write a 4-5 page introduction and I'm just completely lost on how to start, even after googling it",3,1,10.831813899474563,college
How can I get better grades when I am overworked?,"Currently, I am in my third semester of college studying computer science and I am swarmed constantly with work. Between my calculus 3 course, computer science 2, and physics, I am working eight hours a day on homework and often have no energy by the end of it. 

My grades are not horrible per se. two B's, an A and a C, but you can see why I would want more A's in my courses. I notice that while I do fine for normal assignments such as labs, I get lower grades on tests and quizzes.

How can I boost my grades with this kind of workload? I feel so overwhelmed this semester.",2,3,10.862103251326415,college
What to message group project members?,"Hi, college freshman here. I've been assigned my first group project, ever actually. The groups were assigned a few weeks ago and we have each other’s emails but there hasn't been any contact so far. The project isn't due until the end of the semester, but I'm getting a little bit worried. I finally decided to message them but wasn't sure what to write. 
Does anyone have advice on what I should write as a first message to the group?",2,1,10.871200473548638,college
How would you change the school system?,"I’ve been thinking a lot about this, especially because school at the moment is driving me insane. Universities in the US are considered to be some of the best, but we also have so much h ate toward the school system and how it evaluates it’s students. I always see people saying how the system should change but never provide a solution. What would you change? what is your major? I would imagine STEM majors to be evaluated differently than other majors.",13,5,10.878075473548638,college
Overwhelmed and unmotivated,"Lately I’ve felt no motivation to do any of my work or even be in school at all honestly. It’s all so confusing and I feel like i should be in school and want to do well but at the same time I hate it. 

I’m a junior and I spent my first two years at a big state school and transferred back home to a much smaller state school for my final two years. I just don’t want to do any school work anymore or have the constant stress and worry that comes with it. 

But at the same time I don’t want to disappoint my family and drop out. I do care about their opinions and I just don’t want to cause any conflict there. But I’m just not happy with what I’m doing right now. Thoughts? Anyone in the same boat?",2,5,10.878943529104193,college
"This might be a stupid question, but do you have to be a part of a fraternity/sorority to go to the parties?",,3,4,10.881790751326415,college
What brand of beer do you see at college parties the most?,"I mostly see Bud, Miller, Natty, & Yuengling.",4,0,10.884568529104193,college
What do you wish you would have learned about in JH/HS? I'm a HS principal looking for feedback on how we can improve.,"Title pretty much says it. I'm tired of the status quo and I believe we can do better, but before I make a move I want to gather as much input as I can from men/women under 27.",60,27,10.889892603178266,college
How is it moving far away for college?,"I'm considering going pretty far away from my home for college (would be 2020 or 2021 when I do) but I'm unsure if I could handle it. It would be around a 8 hour drive from all my family, in a place I've never been before.  


So my question is, people who have left home and moved pretty far for college/uni, how was it?",11,2,10.890205103178268,college
Stressed because I chose the wrong major,"I did running start in HS and got my associates. Then I didn’t go to school for 2 years. When I started a semester at a new university, they told me I had to choose a major before registering for the next semester classes. And I’m freaking out because I think I chose the wrong one. At my community college, I was originally wanting to do law, then went to environmental science, and then fell in love with a political economy course. 
I chose economics because I like math and, well, was told if I like Political Science and math, I would do well in Economics. The problem is I realize I love calculus and hate statistics. I just failed an econometrics test. And I’m soooo bored in my economics courses. I thought after the intro courses it would get better but I’m still bored. And my grades are only on average C-B+. 
I loved my English/Social Science courses and got A’s but my advisors told me “you’re too smart for that do something more”. I’m not making this up, they all pushed for students to do like engineering or business degrees. 
Aaaaaaahhhh what do I do! I don’t want to graduate with a degree I don’t like but I feel like it’s too late. After this semester I only have 2 left until graduation. It’s technically been 4.5 years since I started this thing, should I just get it done? Who at the school do I even talk to? 
Sincerely, Stressed Student",4,4,10.896501399474563,college
How do you guys stay motivated when studying?,,19,17,10.900112510585675,college
I'm just so overworked and yet unmotivated right now,"I'm a senior and I'm working on my thesis (poli sci major) and I just can't feel any motivation to work on it. I should have basically all of my data gathered by now but I only have like 6 sources (I need to find like 30 probably). I'm meeting with my advisor tomorrow for our weekly check-in on how it's going and I know she's gonna be frustrated that I haven't really done anything all week. I know I'm super behind everyone else but I just can't work up the energy to work on it. I also don't really understand what I'm supposed to be doing. Am I supposed to just be finding sources? Should I make a chart? How many sources do I really need? I'm ashamed to ask my advisor these questions at this point because I should have been way past this point for weeks.

My other classes have been suffering, too: I'm taking an into-level philosophy course and just got a C on the midterm (it's the only C I've ever gotten in 4 years of college). It's a super easy class but I just couldn't work up any motivation to study for it and forgot a major philosopher's point of view on the topic, which I ended up having to make up so I could write two essays on it.

I haven't even begun studying for the GRE that I'm taking in late November, or even starting applications for grad schools.

I'm the president of a couple of clubs on campus, an officer in another, and my job has been giving me more and more responsibilities, so I keep prioritizing all that stuff over my schoolwork. I know this is bad. I just can't seem to care about what really matters right now. I mean, look, I'm writing this post instead of working on my thesis. Again.

Is anyone/has anyone else gone through this? How do I get out of this slump?",2,12,10.91398982540049,college
Advice and opinions on leaving University late to go into a Trades college," (I originally posted this in r/Advice, but I got no help there, so here I am!)

&#x200B;

Hey all. I'm on mobile so sorry about formatting.

I'm in my 4th year of university, with about another 2 years left. I had a really bad year (mentally) last year so I decided to take things slow for the duration of my studies. Problem is, I've been wanting to leave university to go to a trades college for the past 2 years, and the longer I wait to decide, the worse I feel about it. After being coaxed by family into going to university I went into Humanities because I didn't know what I wanted to do. Even though I've learned a lot, I know that I'm not leaving university with the skills necessary to go straight into a specialized field, and it's honestly crushing. If I dropped out right now and took up a 2 year training program for a specialized field, I would pay half of a single year of university tuition, and be ready for employment right out of the gate.

When I first started wondering about why I'm in university and started looking for alternatives, my family was not happy. It didn't matter to them what I studied, as long as I studied at a university and not do trades. I'd understand if they were paying for it I guess, but I'm doing this all on my own and taking out huge loans for it. And that's another problem. I have 10's of thousands in loans for a program that I don't think I could get a job with. Hell, I don't even know where to begin looking for jobs with humanities degree that doesn't require an additional 3 to 4 years of study (masters or specialized training). And if I leave Uni to go to a trades college, NOTHING transfers over. Sure, I can write essays (both research and opinionated), and understand the complexities of Shakespeare... But essentially those last 4 years may as well have never happened (except now I have loads of debt).

My GPA is also absolutely atrocious. It's gone way downhill since I started wanting to leave, and with my mental health issues that popped up last year it's been exacerbated tremendously (less than 2.0). Only reason I haven't been kicked out of the program is because I still ""pass"" half of my classes each semester. School still gets their money anyway I guess.

I guess I'd just like to hear some stranger's point of view on this, someone who can look in and give their opinion without any ties to the situation. I pretty much have 2 weeks to decide since the semester drop date is coming up soon.

Thanks to anyone who's listened <3",3,1,10.9379134365116,college
How important are clubs on a resume?,"I think I've seen this asked before, but I'm just wondering how important clubs are on resumes. I'm currently a junior and have not joined a club. My freshman and sophomore year I worked 30+ hours a week and took 15-17 credits per semester so I really didn't feel like I had time to join a club and still have time for homework
 Also, most clubs meet at night and I didn't want to sacrifice hours at work to go to one. I just quit my job a month ago because my course load is heavy this semester and I saved my goal amount of money. I'm now wondering if joining a club will help my resume at all. I'm a marketing and economics major and I go to a fairly small school so there's not many clubs that pertain directly to my major. I could join a general business one, but it wouldn't benefit me much in terms of learning about econ/marketing, so I'd only want to look into it if it would help boost my resume. I'm in an economics honor society which isn't really a club but I could at least add that to my resume. I'm not sure how much employers care about GPA, but I currently have a 3.92 (only non A course were outside my major) so I'd at least have something to show for my lack of extracurriculars. Also I was a supervisor at the job I mentioned before and worked there for over 3 years. Just wanted some opinions on if a club seems like it would add much to my resume! Thank you all!",2,1,10.963596306881971,college
Did going to college help get rid of your depression and loneliness?,I’m a senior in high school and I plan on going to college. So I’m curious to hear how it helped you guys. I really hope college helps me not feel shitty all the time. So if you were super depressed and lonely in high school did college help you at all Or did it only get worse?,14,1,11.014464362437526,college
Deciding on whether I should just find a job or keep going,I was planning on transferring to a 4 year college after CC but I don't think I'll have a high enough GPA. It's my first semester and I'm already failing the basic writing/eng classes. I'm 21 and I feel like I'm just wasting my time.,3,1,11.048063899474563,college
Parents not taking my education seriously,Does anyone else’s parents not take education seriously? First off my parents straight up told me I was too stupid for college and that discouraged me from applying for years. I finally work up the courage and apply and I’m doing so well in school! However my parents keep telling me that I need to stop “stressing” over school. Which I’m not stressing exactly I’m just adamant about doing my assignments. They told me I don’t need to do my assignments if I don’t want to and if it gets to be too much I should just quit school. I feel like if anything they should be encouraging me to do my assignments. But they aren’t like that. They think I’m going to fail and think it’s just a waste of time. Anyone’s else’s parents like this? How do I deal with them constantly discouraging me?,12,41,11.0491634365116,college
College pre calculus final,"Okay so I’ve got a pre cal final coming up in a few days. I’ve done decently in the class so far, but definitely wasn’t a piece of cake for me. Would any study guide along the lines of “college pre cal final study guide” be of use or would the questions/concepts vary greatly between professors/schools?",2,0,11.0701009365116,college
Suffering from burnout. Can anything be done about it?,"I'm a senior, so I'm getting told I have senioritis. Maybe they're right, but it feels like it's so much more than that. I still have at least one semester left, are there ways to keep the momentum going?",3,14,11.074499084659749,college
Group Members Not Contributing,"So there's this group presentation due tomorrow. But I'm the only one who's actually worked on the project. I created the PowerPoint, and did a fair portion of the slides. But the whole project isn't even 50% done.

I've messaged them several times, telling them I had 10+ hours shifts this weekend, asking if they're having trouble viewing the PowerPoint. I had a few tech issues getting messages from them (long story), but I'm still not getting any responses.

I know one of the group members is in my morning class, so I'll definitely let him know about this. And to contact the other group members since they're not answering me.

I guess I should contact the professor. But I feel embarrassed since I started working on this project last week and we had a good 3 weeks to complete this.

I probably answered my question, but do you guys have any more advice?

**UPDATE:** I emailed my professor, but still no word from him. And I confronted my group member about the project. Everyone forgot that the presentation was due today, so they're all scrambling to get the rest done. T-minus 12 hours 'til the due date.

**ANOTHER UPDATE:** I briefly talked to the professor, and he said that was actually normal for many of his classes. And we submitted it 3 minutes before the deadline.",10,6,11.097276862437527,college
Can I still salvage this course and can I appeal to my professor?,"This course started a month ago and I need it for a masters program. The course ends a week before the deadline for the master's program submission. I have missed about 3 weeks of course work that I am sure I can catch up if my professor agrees. Around the beginning of the course I found out I was pregnant and had an abortion. The abortion took a huge toll on me and left me completely unable to do work. I've seen a psychiatrist and counsellor now and feel like I can keep up and catch up to the work. I would drop the course, but I need it. Do you think my prof will be able to accep thtis?",1,2,11.121848621696785,college
Grad School question,"Senior Undergrad studying Political Science with a minor in Computing and Information systems, I have an important question.

What are the best programs (best as in highly rated and well-known institutions) for a Student that wants to go into Single Issue Lobbying?",1,1,11.125008343919008,college
What is the most quotable saying you’ve heard/said in college?,The amount of times I’ve shrugged and said “I mean I could probably still eat that” is equal to the amount of all nighters I’ve pulled.,32,50,11.127149547622711,college
Roommate + friend caught me masturbating? I’m a girl btw,"What the title says :( She was out for the weekend and just got back this afternoon, when I was in the middle of the act. I was basically just humping my blanket. I heard the door open and instantly turned and tried to make it look like the blanket was just covering me instead (this meant a loud flurry of movement, which probably did not fool her). I pretended to be sleeping while her friend and her dropped off their stuff. I heard them whispering but couldn’t catch anything except “She’s from x state”, “I told her I’d be gone for the weekend” and “That’s so weird”. Enough to tell me what they saw :( Then they left and I’m sitting here typing this post. 

I’m so embarrassed. I’m not close with my roommate at all and she likely is going to tell other people. I don’t know how to respond to this situation; I don’t think I even want to bring it up with her when she enters the room again. I feel so ashamed. She definitely thinks I’m a weirdo now :(",21,75,11.132369455030119,college
Does anyone else prefer reading from home compared to at school?,"I have lots of classes and options to go to school and work together with my classmates in groups, but the thing is that I much rather prefer reading and doing the work on my own. It takes very long for me to understand things and manage to do the tasks, compared to everyone else. And I don’t want to be around them, slowing them down, or seem like a stupid guy who struggles with learning everything. 

So I prefer reading at home, all by myself, no people around me. I can spend as much time as I want to on every task, and I can allow myself to get heavily frustrated, which I often get. I feel like this is very uncommon though. Does anyone else feel the same?",8,9,11.134337047622711,college
Is joining a honor society at my school worth it?,"I am currenrtly a freshmen majoring in theare and I got a email from my Educational Opportunity Fund program saying that I am eligable for an honor society named Chi Alpha Epsilon and I have to pay 66 dollars to join but I am not sure if its gonna help me in the long run or even worth it, I go to Montclair State, thanks for the help",4,3,11.162195843919008,college
Transferring with extra credits,"So I’m currently in community college and I want to transfer to a 4 year college. The agreement said I need 60 credits but 75 maximum. Does this mean I can do extra credits that could transfer over? If I can, would you recommend it?",1,1,11.168179640215303,college
What are subject codes and course numbers?,"&#x200B;

[I am applying to MSU and I want to know the difference between these two numbers, and where to find them.](https://i.redd.it/5zomvaasxyq31.png)",1,0,11.17848056614123,college
Receiver grants?,As a college student who is dead broke and going into the criminal justice field I would like to ask a question. Where is the best place to search for a possible grant for me to apply for to help me financially?,2,1,11.188584732807897,college
Asking if my boyfriend can sit in on my class?,"So I have a long distance boyfriend who's going to be visiting over fall break. His fall break starts earlier than mine, so he'll get here 2 days early, while I'm still attending classes. I figured it would be fine if he sat in on one of my huge lecture classes (100 people), but I have an International Politics class that I really love, with an amazing prof, and I think it would be cool for him to see it himself. Is it rude or strange to ask if he can sit in on the lecture? It's lecture-based but question driven, a class of around 50 people but there are extra chairs at the side of the room. My plan would be to ask on Monday if he can attend Friday's lecture, so 5 days advance notice. Also, should I say friend rather than boyfriend or something? And is it too much ass-kissing to give the (true) reason for it: that I think his class is so awesome? Probably overthinking this, but I'd appreciate any thoughts!  I'm just nervous about it, and as a freshman want to make sure I don't mess anything up with the prof, who's a department head for my major and will be grading my midterm essay next week (which is worth 50% of my grade).",5,12,11.191536121696785,college
Can I transfer from a community college to any other one even if they don’t have a transfer agreement with my college?,"Obviously if I have the grades I need an stuff, but would I be considered a new student or transfer student? Too shy to ask a transfer advisor or anything.",2,2,11.200587047622712,college
Any advice for someone who's considering dropping a class," I feel like a quitter but the professor of this class is just beyond trash ya know?my grades are fine but not for long. Its not like I ""click"" with a prof I just feel like he doesnt give two shits about students. He doesnt answer his emails, his due dates are all fucked up, his classes are meant for beginners but he treats us like were suppose to know everything hes saying, his assignments are so hard,  the other teachers (who are also teaching the same subject) say that hes teaching too fast, and hes confrontational/submissive towards students that need help 😒",3,2,11.218387973548637,college
how do you study?,"im trying to study for biology and i literaly dont know what to do other than just reading it over and over (its powerpoints)

i lose focus so much and a feel like im not absorbing much",3,7,11.224892603178267,college
Master options for a logistic and supply chain management graduate,"What master course is is suitable for students who have a bachelor degree in logistics and supply chain management? I don’t want to pursue a MBA in supply chain management, so what other master course is a goes well or links with my graduate course? I would be pleased if you would state what career options are available. Thanks in advance!",1,1,11.245806955030119,college
"Dorm room rug owners, do you have a rug pad?",No one told me rug pads were a part of this deal,2,6,11.267381029104193,college
I just have this gut feeling,"I’m introverted, and not to make this sound stalkerish and creepy, but I notice everything, I remember everything about anyone. If they tell me something and I’m not necessarily their friend, I still make sure to remember. And I can observe emotions pretty well.

So I live in an LC (Learning Community) where we all live in the same floor and all have the same interest in what we joined the LC for. That means it’s ideal that you should know everyone on the floor and people do know me and I know everyone else. 

Now here’s my gut feeling. I tend to either go to the library a lot cuz I love it sometimes and I feel like I should give my roommate some alone time, but the downside to that is everyone on my floor is getting along. My roommate in particular has a group of friends on the floor that I’m not a part of, but they do say hi. Now my gut feeling, any time they see me now, I try to say hi but I’m sensing they don’t want to talk to me.

From past experience which is why my gut feeling is that my roommate is talking shit or just saying bad stuff about me kicks in. This happened to me in the past with some other friend so I’m just paranoid rn too. My roommate and I get along but what if she’s telling her floor friends a complaint that she’s not confronting me about or what if she’s telling everyone that in the first week of school, I said this floor seems cliquey. My roommate now joined that clique so I’m even more paranoid.

I wish I didn’t join an LC because I could just be a floating floor mate. I know I might be worrying for no reason, but I just wish someone wanted to talk to me for once on my floor",1,1,11.274337047622712,college
Going back to school at 22- is it worth it,"I left school after freshman year due to health reasons. Im 16k in debt from one year (I got a “full” scholarship but surprise! that doesn’t mean housing!!) and I’m worried about more debt. I started in...*comparitive diversity studies* (I wanted to go to law school afterwards I swear!!). I want to switch to aviation management or tourism with a focus in aviation, which likely means I’ll only have a semester worth of credits when I transfer. 

Is it worth it? Should I go back?

ETA: I’m partially disabled and have walking issues so working the ramp at an airport isn’t an option for me. I am currently on disability until I can get my shit back together physically and mentally.",6,5,11.295876399474563,college
Does anyone else feel bad about being lazy on weekends?,"When I was at home, I would wake up at like 8am, eat breakfast with my family, and go on a run/ do errands with family. I really miss it. When I wake up here, I just feel awful. I can’t wake up to good breakfast, I sleep in and half my day is already gone. Does anyone else feel like this? I need help",18,93,11.304198158733822,college
Advice please 🙏🏻,"Hey guys! So I’m lucky enough to go to a school that’s only an hour away from home and one that doesn’t require me showing up to class like at all (I literally didn’t show up at all and only studied for the finals and passed, both semesters with average grades which what I sat for myself) I’m currently in my junior year studying CS and I’ve started learning Java complete with algorithms and data structures in my own time and when I’m done with that I’m gonna do C# and Python. 

Any tips on what else I should do or learn ? I’m pretty good with self learning and everything so that isn’t problem. 

Thank you!!",1,2,11.314093992067155,college
joining cultural associations when mixed?,"hi! so i'm not in college yet (senior), but i didn't know where else to post this (i figured a2c wouldn't be as useful since most people there are in the midst of applying rather than in college, but i could be wrong). 

i don't know how i'm going to make friends in college, and i figured one organization i could join to do so would be Korean Students Association or whatever equivalent exists where i'm going, but i was wondering how i would be received when joining, being that i'm half korean / half white? for example, if people are typically welcoming, or instead don't like halfies joining or consider me ""fake"" (mixed tings)?

i don't live in a place where there are a lot of korean (or asian lmao) people, so i'd really like to join something like that once i'm in college (and also make friends through it), but if i'm not going to have the best experience then i'll disregard it lol, as this has happened to me quite a bit before. if anyone is in one of these organizations (not just korean, but any culture) and has insight on this, or is mixed themselves, any input would be much appreciated!! :)",3,6,11.326431955030118,college
Advice on whether I should transfer or not,"Hey y’all I’m fairly new to this subreddit but I could use some advice. Basically I’m in my first semester of college and I feel like I am not living my college experience to the fullest. I live at home with my parents, I barely participate in on campus activities, and I still have parents that treat me like a child (they have a tracker on my phone and don’t give my much independence).  I’ve been thinking of transferring because I go to a small private university and I really did not imagine myself going there, but they offer the best financial aid and I ended up going there because it was the safe option. I am stuck in the same routine of go to school, go to work, do homework, and repeat. As it is a small university, there isn’t even much to do and I feel like I really do not click with the campus and the other students there. I’ve been thinking of transferring to a larger campus out of my city with more opportunities to do extra circulars and such. I’m just not as happy as I thought I would be in college. I’m also a pre-med student who is majoring in forensic science biology. I want to transfer but I’m so scared of the financial toll it will be and the large loans I will have to pay back, but I’m really not happy in my current situation and at this rate I feel like I’m gonna burn out soon. I don’t want to look back at my college years and have regret over my decisions. Any transfer students with helpful tips/ students who were thinking of transferring but didn’t?",3,7,11.510043066141229,college
"commuters who live with their parents, how do you guys go to parties?",,23,13,11.589881029104193,college
How important are extracurriculars in college? Do they matter as much as they do in high school?,"I’m sure everyone here knows the beginning of the school year is THE time for clubs, organizations, and fraternities/sororities to get people interested in joining. But exactly how important is being involved in extracurriculars in college? In high school, it was nearly a requirement to be in at least 3 extracurricular activities and have leadership positions - does it matter as much in college? And do college extracurriculars help / matter a lot in getting internships and/or jobs? 

P.S. A more specific question to my case: how much do extracurriculars matter if I’m looking to transfer to a different college?",7,3,11.651617140215306,college
"Midterm season, just give me short motivations?","Hi fellow college students!

I am a chemistry/biology student and it is now a midterm season and I need some motivation, words of encouragement, and advice.

So far I failed one midterm I studied really hard for and losing motivations as I am really unhappy at myself. 

Please help me out.",1,1,11.793503714289379,college
So is this normal for arts courses in universities? (Canada),"So long story short i am in a canadian university (UNB) and enrolled in arts first year.

Basically the list of courses state for eg 15 1st year courses available in a given subject. checking this year fall and winter timetable shows maybe only half of that offered. Last year offered courses were different as well.

So is this normal or is it a sign that my school's humanities programme is greatly underfunded lol XD

What about universities in other countries say usa? would like to hear your comments :D",8,2,11.811281492067156,college
Need advice. I think my roommate is depressed and it is getting difficult on me.,"So i’m a freshman and my roommate and I are both introverts. The first 2-3 weeks were alright and we both got out and did events and went to class but then she seemed to just stop. Now she misses class fairly often, is absolutely always in the room, and rarely is with anyone besides the occasional time where her boyfriend (who she met here early on) comes over, but they’re pretty much always in our room.  She rarely even gets food on campus, she just gets it delivered like once a day. 

I often come back to the room to her napping so I have to be quiet and the room is dark. If i invite her out she’ll come but we are better roommates than best friends and because of my own mental health issues it’s really important I spend time with the friends i’ve made here and she just isn’t a part of that group. I’ve tried suggesting cool free things for her and her boyfriend to do on campus but they never do anything besides watching movies in her bed. They both have cars here and have maybe gone out like 2 or 3 times? She once expressed interest in the gaming center on campus so we went out together and walked through it but has never gone by herself. 

It’s getting really hard for me to never have alone time and always have to be in a dark quiet room. There’s literally no where I can be alone and i’m exhausted and desperate to be able to dance to music. I’m not really in a great mental state (using campus therapy/psych services rn don’t worry) to take her on because I feel like it would be a full time job and I would lose the friends i’ve made here. Should I talk to her mom the next time she comes? I don’t really feel like the boyfriend cares because he seems to encourage it (although he is pretty nice) so I don’t think talking to him would be good or my place. She doesn’t really have other friends on campus either. What should I do while still being considerate? As much as i’d love to just kick her out of the dorm every now and then that wouldn’t help the problem.",20,25,11.839603251326414,college
Leaving School after first semester - Want to apply elsewhere in the fall,"For personal, financial and creative reasons I have made plans to likely not attend school after my current semester (freshman year) finishes. I am wondering if I should still be applying as a transfer or somehow as a new student - I am trying to get into film programs, and know that I kind of would have to start at the beginning with classes that are required by my major. So far I have been going through the transfer common app, but I just wanted to get a final opinion on how I should do this if anyone is willing to help me out. I am currently applying on the University of California transfer section application as well and am feeling down about this weird kind of transfer student that I would be considered. I would appreciate any advice - if my chances would be much better to finish out this year I would appreciate if anyone could tell me that also. Sorry if this doesn't belong here - hope you all have a lovely day.",3,4,11.842566214289377,college
is it weird to approach classmates in the library?,"it’s my first year at community college and am i’m finding it hard to make any friends, i sometimes recognize a few faces in the library (and some other places around campus) from my classes, so is it weird to approach and talk to someone you’ve never talked to but have a class together?",4,1,11.845598621696785,college
How should I react to/ process people who achieve better results and put in less time than me?,"I'm in Calculus II and I'd say on average I spend 2-3 hours a day on it. I talked to 2 of my classmates and they say they don't really do the homework and just do the first couple problems of the homework every day( and sometimes not even that). I think they get better grades than me and Its really discouraging that they seem to be doing better than me with less work.

I think another way it's unhealthy is that's its been causing me to slack off. I'll think to myself,"" if they don't need to put in that much time, then I don't either.""

Has anyone come across a similar situation before? I'm not sure whether to believe these two people and it's been getting me pretty discouraged that they seemingly put in less effort than me and still get better results.",5,1,11.855992140215305,college
I got an awful grade on my first exam because I admittedly did not take studying for the class seriously. I'm going to go to the professor to figure out what I got wrong because the exams are cumulative. Should I be honest and tell him the reason I didn't do well was because I barely studied?,"I'm not expecting any sympathy out of this post. I was a lazy ass who didn't take it seriously but I am going to try my best to make a rebound. When I go to office hours to review my test with him should I tell him I failed because of my lack or effort or should I make up a reason as to why I failed? I don't want to look bad but realistically I know being honest is probably the best thing to do. Needless to say, this exam was a huge wake up call for me.",15,2,11.857068529104193,college
What is internship?,What is internship?,3,0,11.86361945503012,college
"How I do balance my relationship with my parents, and my own independence.","I just started freshman year and this starting to cause some tension with my parents. I can say they care about, and provide for me, but have always been quite strict with me. I understand they want the best for me, but it's just suffocating dealing with them most of the time. It kind of pushes me away and I isolate myself from them. I get it doesn't solve the problem, but it's much easier than actually telling them I feel this way. I just don't see that helping the situation. 

They wouldn't let me live on campus, but I ended up making it work by sleeping at a friend's dorm. Because of this I'm only home 1-2 times a week. Despite this, I do sit with my family and spend time with them. They don't want to admit it, but I think they're concerned about me and miss me. 

I guess I'm reaching out to you guys, to hear how others of you who've had similar situations dealt with it. Am I in the wrong in this situation? How does independence in this stage of my life work?",3,11,11.866420380956045,college
Commuting Questions!,Any commuters out there? Do you drive or take public transportation? How far are you from campus/how long does it take you to get to school? Have you always commuted or did you just not like dorm life? Do you feel commuting has improved your grades or made them worse? Do you wish you lived on campus? How often do you commute (everyday/mwf/tr)?And any tips for future commuters?,7,1,11.90199908465975,college
"I already have 700/1000 points in a class, should I take my ""C"" and not go anymore?","This class is front-loaded and the only thing we have left is the final which is 150 points, 2 quizzes at 50 points, and a group assignment for the last 50 points. Everything except the group project and quizzes are online. I did a crap ton of extra credit to get up to 700 points.

The class is at 7pm twice a week. I hate night classes but it was the only one available",5,0,11.90464954762271,college
"Any other ADHD students, do you get any accommodations outside of tests?","I know the typical accommodations for students with ADHD are extended testing time and taking tests in a different room. Sometimes you can get a note taker or access to lecture slides, etc. But does anyone get accommodations to help for other aspects of classes?

I'm really struggling right now with my classes because there's no quiet, distraction free place on my campus where I can go and study (no private study rooms in the library for example). It's making it really hard to get my work done. My courses also don't have traditional pen and paper tests, we're graded on projects and assignments only, so I can't use testing accommodations either. Is there anything else student disability services can do, or has done for you?",4,4,11.929568529104195,college
Retaking course for higher grade?,"I was talking with my friend the other day, and he mentioned that with my low grades class from a previous attempt, I could re-take it, and if I got a higher grade the next time, that would nullify the low non passing grade I got the first time. Is that how this works or am I misunderstanding something?",5,4,11.960135658733824,college
Starting in fall vs spring,"So I graduated last May from a community college and I want to transfer to a 4 year college. I ended up doing exactly what I shouldn't have done and put college off.

Right now, I'm trying to decide if I should try to get accepted for next spring or wait until next fall. What would be the better idea? Would I have less of a chance of getting accepted if I put it off until the next fall?",8,1,11.966651862437526,college
"I missed a test, what should I do)",So I missed a test in my math 1111 class bc forgot my alarm. Entirely my fault (I’m never taking another AM class ffs) should I withdraw w/o academic penalty or try to pass with that 0 for a test?,5,4,11.96964954762271,college
What advice or tips can you give to someone taking chemistry in college?,Gen Chem 1. Undergrad.,10,2,11.984452788363454,college
M/25 should I use 15k to go back to college?,"Independent with 0 efc. Aunt has the 15k If that would effect efc. Anticipate tuition/room/board at Bloomsburg University to be covered by grants and loans. Transferring, should get 30-45 credits but would likely take 3 and a half years to finish bachelors in business management with all the courses I need. Other option is to work in a factory and keep the money. Maybe trade school but haven’t looked much into that. Was looking forward to the opportunity of school but have to stay with my mom over summers and is charging me 350/month so that changed the look of the budget. Thanks for input.

EDIT: also have 2 felonies from 2013 and one from 2016 (age 19 and 21). Hope ban the box law and 7 years past in 2023 would help.",6,3,12.002300010585676,college
Need some support y'all,"We had our first honors chemistry exam last Wednesday. My chemistry professor graded the exams and the highest grade was a 68%. Most hovered around 25-30%.

He's not curving. He won't tell us what to study. He doesn't follow the textbook at all - for reference, I did EVERY SINGLE textbook problem in the book and made sure I understood the concepts behind each so I could reasonably apply them. I'm crushed at my terrible score. He laughed at my notecard before I started the exam, and I know it sounds whiney, but it hurt my feelings man. I worked really hard on that thing.

I really need an A in this class if for no other reason than I'm a neurotic straight-A student. I know there is a solution to this, be it talking to the dean or dropping the course. But right now I'd really just appreciate some reassurance.",4,8,12.009267603178268,college
Allergies and Axe body spray,"I have an allergy to Axe (too much) and sneeze my head off.

&#x200B;

In both my math and enginnering classes guys DRENCH themselves in Axe.  This last week you could chew the air and even my professor wanted the door open to air it out.  I end up sneezing and coughing so much it interrupts the class.  Even with the door open and me sitting as close to the door as humanly possible.  During break I bee-line it to outside, it clears instantly.  Until guys from class come up to me, too close, drenched in Axe.  

&#x200B;

On one hand, you have to appreciate that so many guys are bathing and concerned about BO.  On the other, this is disrupting my education and everyone else's with my sneezing.   -Side note: I take more allergy meds than seizure meds, so it's not like I'm not taking steps on my part-

&#x200B;

Should I ask to address the class, or have the professor do it?  Is there any tactful way to go about asking guys to wear less body spray.  I can handle normal amounts of perfumes, colognes, and yes, even Axe.  This isn't normal amounts.  Even the next class can TASTE the air.",7,1,12.04629306614123,college
"My CJ professor resigned from his position as an Officer after he falsely called in a shooter, which triggered a manhunt, including helicopters, swat, etc. (no bullet casing found/eyewitnesses say they heard no gunshots)","So far he hasn’t been charged with a crime but the police chief said it cost tens of thousands of dollars. He has yet to cancel class, but he talked about what happened in all of his classes. What happens if he gets charged? My college will most likely fire him, but would they in the middle of the semester? Just a little confused here..

edit: Our classes were given new professors.",16,49,12.06955695503012,college
How do you have healthy hobbies?,"I find myself sitting in my apartment watching Netflix and playing games when I’m not in class/work. Obviously these are bad habits and not productive hobbies. 

I like doing outdoorsy stuff like hiking and whatnot, because being outdoors is comforting for some reason. Unfortunately though I live in the south and it’s hot as shit most of the year and I want to be anywhere but outside. 

What are some other fun hobbies/activities that you guys do that don’t involve being outside? I need some sort of social activity in my life as that area is a bit lacking for me.",12,18,12.086559269844933,college
I’m feeling extremely anxious about the future of my education,"I’m currently in my first semester of community college as a psych major. I recently talked to a college counselor and mapped out my education plan and planned on trying to transfer to UC San Diego or Cal Poly, as my top choices, but I’m not sure about backups yet because those are pretty difficult schools to get into. Anyways the reason why I’m so anxious is because the UC’s and the higher up CSU’s are my best choices when it comes to transferring because of research focus opportunities, and I’m planning on grad school. I also know that although the minimum GPA is 3.5, I probably need to get at least a 3.8 to have a good chance. But I have to take so much science and math my next future semesters since I’m a B.S. I. Psychology ( I would go for my BA but you typically need a BS to get into grad school )  and I’m really not good at math or science, so I’m just worried about getting below a 3.8 and having no chance of getting into any good school and ruining my future. The issue is so many schools don’t offer BS in psychology and also research universities are important to me because of grad school. Am I screwed if my GPA drops below a 3.7-4.0?",1,1,12.118723621696786,college
future proof majors besides cs,"engineering, accounting, nursing, teaching are all of these good options?",21,1,12.131131029104194,college
Is dropping math in freshman year a good idea?,"So just got my first test back and I got 75/100. I'm going for a high GPA this semester and don't really want to fight an uphill battle to get my grade up. On top of this, my professor is a total jerk and I don't want to deal with him (have had to argue points back on 3/4 of the assignments so far).

It's not that I don't understand the material in the class, but that there were some complications with the homework which led to me losing ~17 points on the test. I would've gotten an A on it, but now I'm not really motivated to try hard in the class any more.

I was thinking that if I dropped math I would be able to focus more on my portfolio and do some projects on my own that could boost my resume, but I'm also considering transferring and I don't know if it will look good if I don't take a math class this semester.

I'm currently taking 15 credits and will be down to 12 if I drop math.

edit: that test was weighted 20% of my grade, so I lost 5% overall from it.",23,11,12.13490417725234,college
Testing out for credit,"I’ve messaged my professor about this but I’m an online student so this may take a while. 

My state has a requirement to take 4 semesters of foreign language. As an online student, I have very little choice when it comes to what language I can take. I’ve decided on Spanish since I’ve done 2 years in high school and I figured I wouldn’t need to study to keep up.

The problem is, I still have to do 9.5 hours of homework a week in VHL. It takes so much of my time. I know universities wanna make money on education so this might not be an option, but I’ve been studying Japanese since finishing high school and I am 100% sure I can test out of their 100 level classes(my husband took them, they’re ridiculously slow paced). My professor’s assistant says they offer that for 100 level Spanish, (I’m level 200) so maybe they do for Japanese too.

My question is, is there a such thing as getting credit for this? Colleges give honorary Degrees and such, so I’m being optimistic in hoping I can get credit for self study so that I can really focus on it next semester or next year. I’m tired of paying to study a language that doesn’t interest me anymore and that gets in the way of my studies. What can I do here?",2,2,12.139522232807897,college
What is a solid cite for generating a bibliography?,"Easy bib and bibme used to be pretty solid, but lately they have been complete cancer. Are there any other alternatives?",13,17,12.16066806614123,college
How can I become a better student?,I’m a high school drop out and fucked up highschool badly so I got my ged and now I’m a year and a half into college. My past self / habits I think hold me back from becoming a really good student and actually enjoying school. So what habits can I pick up or what way of thinking should I adopt / what actions should I take to become a better / more successful student?,7,3,12.170494455030118,college
I was absent twice and missed 2 quizzes due to mental problems and I got a W grade. What does this mean?,"I have several severe mental illnesses and I could not bring myself to go to class. This happened twice. As a result, I missed 2 quizzes. My professor told me that he had to talk to me after class. When he did, he told me that he has to give me a W grade (he didn’t want to do it, but it’s campus policy). What does this mean? What does “W” stand for? Withdraw? If so, what does *that* mean? I’m a transfer student, and I l only have 1 semester of college under my belt. So i’m basically a freshman I guess.",15,1,12.178955103178266,college
Food,"So I recently moved into my dorm and didn't bring a minifridge because my roommate's parents said they were buying one, but now that I'm here my roommate won't let me use it. What can I keep for food in my room that doesn't require a fridge?",8,4,12.191223621696786,college
What’s getting me through loneliness now that I disabled social media,"Disabled social media due to always comparing my poop life to my old friends and how they’re having new friends and an actual life!

that helps with stopping myself with comparisons, but now I have to deal with my loneliness here. 

I’m in a Learning Community so everyone on my floor is supposed to get along. I know everyone’s names, they know mine, but all of them have cliques in the floor and I’m here knowing every single person, but not being able to join them in their fun, even when our community has events to do.

I’m def not joining a LC next year, but what’s getting me through hearing people having fun outside in the hallway and realizing I’m freaking lonely is that I compare college to high school now. In high school, yes I said hi to friends and talked and all that stuff, but when I got home, I didn’t go out unless it was for work. 

So what’s getting me through this loneliness is the fact that I’m doing the same in college. It’s basically my normal daily life I had in high school, except I feel the urge time have to hang out just cuz I hear everyone else having fun outside of my room. I go to class, do my work in the library, go back to my room. I keep telling myself this is how I was in high school, so why do I feel more lonely here than high school? I didn’t rly hang with my friends until breaks in high school, and I never felt lonely even when I didn’t see my close friends for a while in HS.",5,8,12.198422695770859,college
Should I get an iPad?,"Hello fellow college students...simple question. Is an iPad worth the money? Specifically an iPad Air 3 for $450 ($350 cause I have a gift card) absolutely, 100% worth every penny? I have a 2015 MacBook Pro so I don't need it for laptop capability, but I figured it would be a good tool for note taking, and also annotating things like PDFs and Textbooks.

I know there are ""ways"" to get free textbooks online, or cheaper online books, but I absolutely can NOT use my laptop for reading textbooks. For me, I LOVE having hard copies to write in, highlight, annotate, and do practice problems (I'm engineering so I basically study by doing practice problems). I figured with an iPad I could download the textbooks on my laptop and send them to the iPad, where I can annotate things just as I do now. However, is this change worth the $350 (not to mention the price of a stylus and keyboard as well)?

I read that the older models of iPad didn't have any laminated display, which made writing much more difficult and sloppy, so I would want a newer model, at most a few years old. This is why the iPad Air 3 seems like a good option, because it has a lot of good features for WAY less than the new iPad Pro, and even less than last generation iPad Pro...

Those of you with iPads, was the transition from paper and pencil awkward? Should I wait until next semester with fresh classes to make the transition? Should I even make the transition, because I also have food to pay for and other living expenses that take priority? I can afford an iPad, but I basically worked like crazy over high school, saving money for college living expenses, and don't want to blow it on toys that seem like tools, if that makes sense.

EDIT: I also pay for all my textbooks now, so would an iPad actually SAVE me money? Does anyone download textbook PDFs to their iPad? Cheap? Free? Still just as expensive?",5,1,12.227450473548636,college
"Current marketing major, would do CS but done with all my buisness requirements, thinking about information systems?","Hi, my name is Drake and I'm currently in my 5th semester of college as a marketing major but thinking about changing majors. The marketing courses I'm taking this semester right now are Marketing Research in person and Marketing Management online and honestly, I feel like I'm taking the same class and a lot of it is common knowledge. For example this past Thursday in my marketing research class I sat through a powerpoint on how to make a survey. I end up just getting bored in my in-person class and for my online course I barely even read the textbook. I brought up about a year ago that I was thinking about switching to MIS and my marketing friends said that it's super hard. The info systems program at my university is actually called Business Analytics and Information Systems (BAIS), I guess it's called that because there's more of an emphasis on Analytics in the major and I'm pretty sure all the other public universities in my state are just IS. I love business which is why I originally majored in marketing but the marketing I would like to do is more analytical (Paid Per Click Advertising), but I also find the idea of using data to make more money interesting which is why I think Bussiness Analytics and Information Systems is more my fit. In the intro ISM course (code for BAIS classes), I liked it, missed an A by 0.3 percent, the professor doesn't round. So I have a somewhat idea of how the major works but the major isn't really big, I don't really know anyone in the major but most of my friends are in marketing or accounting. 

My plan for next semester is to take two BAIS courses that can go towards the minor and if it's not for me I'll just minor in BAIS and major in marketing but if it is for me I'll major in BAIS and minor in marketing. 

Anyone currently majoring in MIS, IS, or Business Analytics could tell me what the classes are like and if they enjoy it or not? Also, people in CS majors at this point in my college career is it really worth it to full-on switch to CS?

Also, people who major(ed) in Info Systems, what coding languages did you learn, it seems like it's mostly SQL and I think Python at my school. They've had java and C# classes but I don't think they are being offered next semester. 

Side Note: In business, you have to take every intro business course (Which is a lot) so most of my classes will already count towards the BAIS major which is why I don't think to go into CS is a wise economical choice. 

I want to learn some programming which is why I'm interested in the IS major, but I don't really care if I become a developer, I'm more interested in data jobs tbh.",6,6,12.233550010585676,college
Professors Aren't Responding to Emails,"I have the flu, and have been out of classes all week and am still going to be out of classes til Tuesday at the earliest on doctor's orders. I've messaged my professors about this and have asked them for any notes and class work I've missed and will miss so I don't fall behind with midterms coming up. All but two of my professors have responded back to me. I've sent multiple emails, and have garnered zero notice of response and I'm a little worried because these classes are very credit heavy. What do I do? Should I just leave it alone and ask them about it when I go back?",7,16,12.237843992067155,college
My major has too many outside time commitments,"Like the title says, I’m conflicted at the moment about my major (ecotourism). There are several weekend trips that we have to attend to graduate, which is no issue for most people, but I commute and live alone with my dog. I cannot afford to have someone watch him for entire weekends while I’m on these mandatory trips that already cost hundreds of dollars. I wasn’t even aware of these trips until a few hours ago. Although I like my major in general, over the past few weeks I’ve really been turned away from it. I knew I wasn’t going to be making bank after school, but it sounds like most have gotten jobs either answering phones in travel companies or are doing completely unrelated jobs. Are these good reasons to switch majors? I’m just very frustrated with the lack of communication within my school and all of the other factors I listed.",2,10,12.24910556614123,college
How to not get what I call “lost in the sauce?”,"Idk yesterday it hit me when it was 1am, I’m drunk af, and I realized I forgot to turn in test corrections for an important exam, and then I kind of realized that I’m kind of going overboard with everything, and getting lost in the sauce. My social life has probably never been this concrete and even though I still think I’m goofy and awkward, I’ve somehow learned how to mesh better with people and as a result there has been a lot more smoking and drinking. 

I live at home too, so I think admittedly it’d be a couple magnitudes worse if I lived in the dorms. I had a 3.5gpa last year, and this year I’m finding it hard to keep up with hw, having motivation to study, and just do school things. All my life I was the academic person, and now I’m finding that social things seem to be much more rewarding, and maybe there’s a subconscious motivational factor. 

Idk I emailed the teacher like at 3am, once I got home I turned it in, bc I already had them done, but I just needed to take a picture and submit them. I really feel so stupid for this one, but I’m taking this as a small wake up call before things get worse. 

Any advice or thoughts?",14,28,12.251640288363452,college
Need master degree program options for psych major,"I am a psych major and i live in Seattle Washington. problem is cost of living is so much that i wont be able to pursue anything pyshc related. i have an undergrad degree in health psychology with a 3.4 GPA. one bedroom apartments are now $1500 which is very small.  add insurance, food, car, braces, loans. all which would cost too much and may put me in an extreme depressive episode and without a woman it will feel more lonely and hopeless. I want to care for my future. 

&#x200B;

I dont have much science or math prerequisites so i am looking for options that dont require me to go back to community college to finish those.

&#x200B;

I want all the options possible for master degrees. help me find another dream job. save me, please",8,1,12.272566214289377,college
What do you guys do in between classes?,I’ve always been study between breaks these past 6 weeks once school starts but I feel like I need a break 😩 what do you guys like to do between classes??,13,6,12.276281492067158,college
I really want to take a break in between pre nursing and nursing school. Is this a bad idea? How long of a break is too long?,,2,1,12.30143195503012,college
Getting to know professors,"Hey guys looking for some advice on getting to know professors. I am rather shy and want advice on getting to know them more without awkwardness.,I am just generally afraid to talk to them about things outside of schoolwork. I want to build relationship with my professors because some of them in the past has interesting things to say, letters of recommendations, fellowships, and job opportunities. Thanks y’all!",6,23,12.313411121696786,college
Advice for how to make money on the side?,I'm taking a full load of courses and doing work-study (20 hrs a week for 12hr an hour). I need some extra money but I need a job that is flexible and won't take away too much time from the week (i'm fine with working weekends though). I can't do uber but I was wondering if there was anything else I can do to make some extra money.,3,2,12.333839362437526,college
"So far, not so good. I need some advice.","I am a freshman in college attending a selective tech school that is heavy on workload... And it's been weighing down on me. Back in HS I was an AP student, was in top 10 in my class, had a 4.0 GPA, but it was all because I studied. My grades never came naturally to me. Now that I'm in college, I'm taking more courses at once that all moves very quickly, and honestly I'm not sure how to handle this. I had my first wave of exams and I did bad on 2/3 (have yet to take the 3rd, wish me luck), despite the fact that I studied for hours for a WEEK before the exam arrived. I don't understand what's wrong with me if I study so much yet manage to do so badly. This is especially worrisome because it was in calc, and I'm majoring in physics. I know I understand these topics, but it does not show in my grades. I get even more stressed seeing the people around me not work as hard and get such good grades so easily. I'm thinking I overestimated my abilities because of how I did in HS. 

I also am having trouble making friends. Luckily my bf happens to go to the same school as me, but despite my efforts in joining clubs/ organizations and initiating conversations, nothing has stuck even if I felt a connection with the person. Yet again, my efforts only yield disappointment.

I'm posting this because I don't know what else I can do. I'm wearing myself thin with how much work I do, and I just can't help but cry seeing the results. Seeing all the cliques forming around me makes me feel more lonely than ever. I have a few friends back at home I talk to, but it's different when they are moving on with their lives and I'm stuck in this loop. I really don't want to feel this awful anymore, but I simply don't know where to start.

TLDR; I'm struggling with college, both with grades and making friends because all my efforts end up failing. Any advice on how I can make my situation better?",1,4,12.347068529104192,college
GED Holder going back to school at 30. Help.,"Ok. I had a troubled youth. Ended up with a GED. I've spent the last 10 years going from dead-end job to dead-end job, and it's time for a change. Where do I start? Obviously I know nothing. I need to figure out how to start at square one. Do I just go to a community college and tell them I want to get pre-requisites? Or do I figure out what bachelors I eventually want and then talk to a community college? I am lost please help me guys.",7,4,12.350795380956045,college
Should I Be Worried?,"I posted a couple days ago that my grandpa was about to pass and I wasn't sure if I should email my professors. Well he passed away yesterday and so far they've been understanding. My only concern is my Psychology (online class) Midterm is open 7th-10th. The issue is the visitation and funeral at the 8th and 9th, and I'm speaking. I asked her for an extension until the 12th, but the exam says NO EARLY OR LATE TESTS OFFERED. Do you think she'll say no? If not, is there anyone I can contact above her because I'm really not going to be able to focus or study at all.",1,2,12.375286121696785,college
Suitemate isn't listening about moving the bed away from the wall,Every morning I hear stuff from my suitemate and it wakes me up. I'm using earplugs but the noise from the wall is waking me up. The bed hits my wall with great force and I can hear it. What are my next steps?,2,0,12.377901862437527,college
"Advice About A Classmate? (Really long, please read)","Okay. So I want to preface this by saying I don’t think this classmate is a bad guy-he’s sweet. 

HOWEVER. I’m so tired of him. This is the second class I’ve had with him. I usually get to class ten minutes early, as I go to college and work, I enjoy using that time to get any work I can started, text friends, or read. This guy, even when I’m obviously busy, seeks me out and starts talking to me every time. 
I try to participate to be friendly-he talks over me and only ever talks about himself, how he ‘never has to pay bills or rent’ and about all his travels and not needing to have a job so he can travel all he wants. He constantly talks to me and never seems to want to stop to ask anything about me unless it’s somehow a way to talk more about himself (asked me if I’ve been placed in a school yet, then cuts me off after a one word answer to brag about his placement and how much people like him).
Both classes are/were about three hours. So we often had time to do a lesson plan assignment (education classes) to make sure we were doing it right. He never brought a laptop, so he wouldn’t do the assignment in class and just try to talk to me instead. Interrupting my work. 
Classmates sometimes jump in if we’re working together or have to pair up.  But I keep randomly getting paired with him (professor has us count off, line up by height or hair length then group off). He constantly needs to be directed to do the work instead of talking or doing it incorrectly and...

I know it’s mean of me, but it’s gotten to the point where I’m not looking forward to this class anymore. I love the material and my other classmates but it feels like this guy is inescapable. I don’t want to be mean to him and the class is only 13 people in total, including myself, and it doesn’t end till December. He’s told me before about having ‘accommodations’ in school when he was young, but only ever talked about speech problems, never anything like ADD or ASD. So I don’t know if maybe he’s on the spectrum and just doesn’t realize it’s not appropriate? 

I don’t know how to approach this. Advice would be helpful.",7,12,12.381906492067156,college
Roommate Advice: Odor,"I've been having an issue with my roomate, and was wondering if y'all had any advice.

I'm a first year in college and have been living with my roommate for around 1 month. The first day he moved in, I noticed his smell. It's hard to describe, but it is musty and unpleasant.

I have recently had friends over who have said that the smell is almost unbearable to be in my room for more than a minute or two. The smell is very localized to him. When he is not in the room, I can spray some febreeze and air it out. However, I'm worried that with winter coming I won't be able to leave the windows open for an extended period of time.

I currently have been spraying febreeze and using an essential oil diffuser to make the room smell better, but it isn't working nearly enough and I don't feel comfortable spraying it when he is in the room.

I have spoken to my RA about the issue and ideally would like to find a solution that doesn't involve a room change.

I was wondering if any of you had ideas or solutions for more serious odor problems. I'm pretty desperate to try anything.",12,35,12.396420380956046,college
expensive dream school,Anyone got into their dream school but can’t go/didn’t go cuz it’s too expensive 😭😕 I don’t know how to get over this.,61,86,12.405124084659748,college
Stay or leave after college?,"""stay"" could either mean stay near your college or move back home. I actually live with my parents while I go to college. Im graduating this fall and have mixed feelings. The job market isnt so great where I live, but I have connections. If I have to move out of town for a job, I'd rather just move out of state. I live in FL and only want to stay if it for family and friends. I'd much rather move up north. So I'm struggling to decide if Im going to try to find a jobs locally where things would be safer, but possibly harder to get a job or look north for jobs where Id have to find a way to move in with strangers and fly out for interviews. Longterm I do want to move up north, but I was considering staying for another year or two to get my career going. Im really conflicted. I just dont like FL and want to move, but also have friends and family here.

Moving for a first job is nerve racking to me. I have a couple places in mind, but finding a place to live and flying out for interviews is going to be hard. I am working on an internship right know and my degree is in IT. Sharing a brief overview of what I'm struggling with, but am also looking for typical pros and cons to leaving and staying

What do most people do? Move out of town for a job? What if I want to move places where I dont have connections? wont I get passed over for having an out of state address. What do you guys plan (or did) after college?",4,7,12.447392603178267,college
"There is a rumor that my college will be liquidated after this year,I’m on my last year. I have a part-time job I study foreign languages( english and german) my english is alright, but my german is trash. Any things that i should watch out for? Are any upsides to this?",,2,5,12.547438899474564,college
Has anyone had experience with a yoga/meditation club at your school?,"I've been getting into meditation and yoga to help deal with the stresses of school and of life in general. If you guys haven't tried it I would highly recommend giving it a go. Unfortunately, joining a yoga studio is a luxury I cant afford at this point in my life so I had the idea to start a yoga and meditation club at school. So far I'm thinking of organizing morning meetups to do some light yoga followed by some meditation to start the day.
 I also think it would be a cool way to meet new people that doesnt involve getting drunk. I'm no stranger to the karaoke bar but I wouldn't say I'm building any lasting friendships there. So I'm hoping that getting a yoga club going is something other students would be interested in. Does anyone have a club like this at their school? And if not is this something you guys would be interested in?",0,3,12.609313899474564,college
Just shattered my fucking dorm window.,"AC breaks. Hot as balls. But it’s cold outside. Idea! Open window. Damn! It’s screwed shut. Wait! I have a screwdriver! Shit! It’s tamperproof torx! Wait, I have a small flathead! I can open it! I open it. The whole window even lays down flat. Kind of like when you’re at a hotel and they open just a bit, but all the way instead since I removed all the safety screws. It’s cool. Run a fan. Really nice! But there’s no screen. Well, I’m going to bed so I’ll put the window up and just leave it cracked. Ha! If that isn’t the irony. I leave to go the bathroom and come back. The door slams. The vibration moves the window. The window pivots on its bottom edge, swings open like a wide ass door, and smashes. Shards of glass everywhere. On the floor. In the AC unit. On the fridge. On my bed. In my backpack. Fast forward to me picking up enough shards of glass to fill up two garbage bags and then some, gashing my pinky, clotting and bandaging up (have three red tissues now), and vaccuuming up the rest of the shards. The window still has a lot of broken glass in it. I take the window out and set it down. Well, the window is open now huh? Sure as hell don’t want them to come fix it and it to be hot. So fuck it. I’ll just go to bed and remain cool. To be honest when it smashed, the first thing I thought of wasn’t the clean up, or the damage, or the noise that definitely woke my whole floor up, but the cost. Now I have to pay for it... god damn it. And it’s all my fault. I would say live and learn, but then I’d still be hot, so I’m gonna put a pin in this one.",10,25,12.630656492067157,college
Struggling with a transfer,"Hey guys, I'm an architecture student and technically a junior (transferred in to a 4 year from a 2 year Associates degree). I am having so many problems. I feel like I crashed and burned the first day of school, and all my professors and advisors are doing is throwing fuel on the fire.

This school uses a completely different set of software that I'm used to. I've been trying to learn on the fly for the two major ones but really only made headway in one so far. And their process of doing things is so chaotic and I guess admittedly less ""hand-holdy"" than my 2 year, but I feel like I don't have enough info for the project.

My professor has already blown up at me over some mistakes and my advisor has basically said ""figure out your courses yourself"". At this point I just want out but our studio is a group project and I can't leave my partner high and dry (even though at this point I'm probably hurting more than I'm helping).

Is transferring always this terrible? Has anyone had a similar experience, and if so, what did you do?",1,3,12.638561584659747,college
Wondering how community college is different from university.,"Hey guys, just wanted ask a question. I am usually a self taught person and I am not used to assignments and especially tests. I am a HORRIBLE test taker. That being said I was dumb this semester and I am taking 5 classes (mySQL, PHP, Javascript, College Algebra, and microsoft command line). This is community college and it is already hard considering I already know most of the content and have been programming in these languages not as a profession but more able to tweak and fix existing code. I am wondering does this get harder when you move to university? I have been getting A's so far in my classes at community college.  How is it different than community college if anything? I just want to know what to prepare for. I am in Arizona and thinking about going to ASU if that helps. Thanks guys!",4,2,12.68481158465975,college
Will majoring in physics catalyze my inevitable downfall?,"First-year, pursuing a major in physics.

I’m extremely interested in doing scientific research as a career path, and despite humoring the possibility of becoming a biochemist, psychologist, or even surgeon, I decided on physics. I would love to research physics as a career, but I hear that this position is extremely difficult to obtain. Also, and especially if you aren’t one of the lucky, super-intelligent few, you may be stuck in a not-so-lucrative position as an extremely over-qualified person.

Would it be safer to go along with some other science, or should I stick with it? I do want to earn a PhD. in whatever I decide to study, however, I don’t want to be living on the side of the road after having gone to school for ten years earning a whole doctorate in some focus of physics... Also, how do grad students support themselves while going to school?",9,1,12.68515880688197,college
Over half of my class is confused about our overall grade. We asked the teacher about it but he is not giving us a direct answer. Not sure what to do.,"For a brief background, I am currently enrolled in a math class where we meet in person twice a week but we have online assignments. All of these assignments say they are due December 11th but I try to keep on track with what we are learning in class with the assignments for the tests we take.

My class is set up so we can see our grades online and my grade says it's 88%. Well, here is the confusion. On the tests we get back our teacher puts our test score and the number of points totals we could have possibly earned in class so far and the number of points we have earned. It said I have D- in the class. I quickly looked at my online grade to see if it was altered but nope, still says I have a B+. I even refreshed it a few times. This happened on Wednesday and my grade still says it is a B+.

I asked a few classmates if they had a similar problem as well and they did. A lot of people in my class thought they were passing based on the grade our grade book is giving us but our teacher is telling them they're not, they're borderline failing, or their grade is lower than they thought it was. A few students asked him about it (literally asked the same question five times in a row) and he was super vague and he did not really give anyone a true answer about the situation. It just left students even more confused.

I would also like to note there are no assignments that have been graded and have not been put in the system by my teacher. I even have a few low scored assignments (two for being absent and two for not understanding the material that well) but those are already put into the grading system but even with those low scores my grade still says B+.

Has anyone ever experienced this or something of a similar nature? How do you go about it?",3,2,12.702901862437527,college
Should I be closeted when I go to college?,"Hi! So I’m currently a high school senior and I’m gay. I came out in middle school and I regret it. I feel judged and treated completely different because of my sexuality. I promised that I would be closeted when I went to college, but now I am questioning that choice. What are your thoughts?",21,18,12.73626991799308,college
How do you get started in cooking?,"I have very minimal cooking skills, but I would really like to learn more for healthier and cheaper dinners. I have a communal kitchen in my unit but it has most of the basic equipment available e.g. oven, electric stove, etc. I also have excess to pans, pots, woks etc. I have no allergies and enjoy most foods. Are there any dishes you guys would recommend? Apps and websites? I just don't know where to start.",5,2,12.753619455030119,college
Why is everyone borderline an alcoholic in college,I really don’t see the appeal of alcohol at all,29,59,12.758272232807897,college
Should I get a single dorm or have a room mate?,"I’m going to be applying for college soon, and don’t know if I want a roommate yet. I’m trans, so I know it’d be a lot easier for me to get a single, but I also want the full college experience.

Do you like having roommates? Or would you prefer a single?",10,6,12.776987510585675,college
"My Mom says I should do Graduate School, but I don't know which one I should do.","I don't know how good my GPA could be by the end of my undergrad, but my Economics degree might end up in the 3.1 range.

My Mom has recommended me to go to grad school, but I have no idea whether it'd be a good idea for me. I'm worried that I'm going to either enter one of these programs and hate it, or I'm going to like my program, and never be able to hold a job within my field. 

She's even talked about me going back to get my MA in History, even though I worry about not being able to find a job in that field. Of course, I also worry about not being able to enjoy my job in Law or Economics, and regretting not getting that job/teaching certification in history. On the subject of history, I worry about not being able to grade my student's properly. I worry about not being respected. 

Any advice on what I should do with regards to my current GPA???

I'm really worried about what could happen. Either I find a job that I don't like, or I fail to find a job entirely!!! 

In my Economics coursework, I feel like it's always been hit or miss. There have been times where I didn't like the teacher, or had issues with scheduling, and made as low a grade as a C!!!!",4,2,12.778538436511601,college
Visiting home for the first time after going to college. It feels weird to bring my bags up to my room. It feels almost like I’m a guest.,,3,26,12.816258343919008,college
Do you take any days off of studying?,"I’m currently a sophomore neuroscience major in the US and I’m debating whether or not I should take one day a week (Sunday) completely off of studying. I care a lot about my GPA because i’m thinking about grad school so I study A LOT. I also don’t want to get burned out and feel like I need to lower my stress and anxiety levels.

With all the said: I’m curious as to whether any other students in this sub take a day off every week? Is it doable? Worth it? Should I try to get as much work as possible done on Saturday’s for the weekend?",27,25,12.818017603178268,college
What’s the best group chat app to use for a class?,"Hi, I was wondering what’s the best (or most popular) group chat app? I’m thinking about starting a new group chat for one of my classes and share the link to my classmates so we can ask questions, discuss about the class, etc.",6,1,12.81850371428938,college
"Commuters, how do you do it?","Hi! I transferred to my hometown university and I am commuting. I’m having trouble adjusting to the drive and figuring out how to balance everything. It’s a 35 minute drive without traffic (1 hour during rush hour). 


Commuting can save me 10-12k a year. My grades are okay right now, but I know that they’d probably be higher if I lived on campus. I’d have much more time to study and I wouldn’t have to worry about driving. However, I’d graduate with double the debt. My family is willing to help out, but I don’t want to put that burden on them. 


How do you guys balance everything? Is there anything you’ve bought that has improved your situation? Any advice or tips are greatly appreciated!",8,7,12.819070843919008,college
Quitting full time job to go back to school full time & work part time,"In January I want to return to school. Before I go on about my situation, I tried doing full time school + school before and it didnt work.

I want to return to school to pursue a CS degree. There are two colleges that I have the option of returning to. The closest one (3 minutes from me) and one 20 minutes.

The closest one would be the easiest option but the issue I have is I owe them 3000$. I was thinking of getting a personal loan (monthy bill would be about 65$) to pay them back.

I currently live with parents but my GF and I are moving in within 6 months. We would be moving into a family owned apartment and paying 900 for everything (electric/Gas/heat/parking) and we would be splitting rent down the middle.

My current expenses:

Car payment: 270 (I will be refinancing this to get it lower)

Car Insurance: 200

Phone: 100

Parking Space: 40

Cable: 35

I would be returning to my previous job of being a waiter while I go to school full time. I guess I'm writing this is I want to know people's opinions of my situation.",5,1,12.830077788363454,college
I need help picking a major!,"Hi Guys. I know I'm posting a bit late at night but I'm really hoping someone could help me and give me some insights into what would be a good fit into pursuing. I've changed my major twice now and I'm currently UnDecided. I've been pouring over my college's website and I still am not 100% convinced on a single point.

Fast facts about me that I hope will help:

* I have worked a lot of years in retail in customer service. I am good at it but I hate it. Never want to go back. I don't want to ever work with customers. I don't ever want to work sales!
* I originally majored in sociology. I really enjoyed the subject but I was much younger and dumber and unprepared for college. I also was not sure I wanted to purely research all day. I dropped out.
* Went back to college for Graphic Design. Kind of fun but very mundane, tedious work intensely staring at a computer all day. Manipulating pixels was not rewarding or satisfying, job prospects bad with low pay, high cost of career upkeep. So I left this major and am undecided now. However, I enjoyed the research, branding, user experience, and advertising aspect of it (but we didn't get too into it so I wouldn't say these were my ""passions"" or anything). I can navigate Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign though I don't particularly enjoy them. Please DO NOT tell me to go back to this major, I really overall did not like it.
* I am atrociously bad at math. Like I am worried about even getting a good enough score in placement testing to get into Business Math, which is the lowest credit math course available.
* Therefore I'm pretty bad at science when getting into formulas.
* I think some of my strengths are that I am not too shabby with writing/written communication, I am a good big idea person, and I am decent at coming up with good ideas/concepts for different types of projects/subjects.
* I hope my future job will be in an office with no physical labor needed and no driving around needed, I'd like to work with a team of people but working on my own is fine too.
* I am obviously concerned with making money but to be honest, what is more important to me is somewhat enjoying my job and having nice work conditions, even if that means I don't make too much money (though money is always nice and welcome! lol!). I just want a nice little job with a nice little career going for me.
* I don't want to spend all day doing maths or doing programming (I know this is so popular but I've tried learning a variety of languages and I am simply both not good at it AND I really don't like it!).
* I am a bit introverted and reserved but I am capable of communication with others and even giving presentations and handling public constructive criticism (thank you to graphic design for that).
* edit to add I have no interest in the medical field, in teaching, or working with kids.

I would so greatly appreciate any and all suggestions and advice.",14,1,12.874695843919008,college
Are dependency overrides only for dire situations?,"I want to be able to pay for college, but it pisses me off to no end that my parents income is going to be considered. It's MY education, and I believe this so strongly I am willing to wait 'till I'm 24 if that's what it takes to get a loan covering the whole thing.

Apparently though, there is a thing called a ""dependency override"", but I get the feeling that's just for situations where your parents won't pay or are in jail or something, and not just because of some consciencious objection.

Am I right?",2,1,12.889186584659749,college
Am i asking for too much if i want £779 from a grant when the limit is 1k?,so today my student manager told me about applying for a grant for money or equipment/tech and such to help with my course and that the max amount of money is £1000 they will give. my question is am i asking for too much if i want £779 ( for a surface pro 6 which i've been trying to get one for some time now and ofc cannot afford one myself) and should i go into detail as of why i want/need that specifically? i have no idea how these work since i've never really done anything like this except apply for a bursary which are alot more simpler and only give me free meals,1,13,12.901617140215306,college
Professor’s textbook is terrible.,"My professor uses a textbook in class that he wrote himself. I would have no problem with this besides the fact that it is riddled with grammatical errors, spelling mistakes, repeated words, broken english, etc. I still find the textbook material to be comprehensible, however I find it quite unfair that student writing is held to a much higher standard than what is being used in class. If I were to be assigned a paper for any subject and had half as many mistakes, it would be graded as an F. I just find it very unprofessional and it makes me feel as if the university I attend is less credible as an educational institution.  Would it be fair to submit a complaint at the end of the semester, in regard to this textbook?",2,4,12.90359630688197,college
Short 2k,"Hi guys, I applied for part time schooling at the UofA expecting my grant to still come through. I found out too late that they won't give me the grant. I've already gotten FAFSA, and I've been applying to scholarships, but I'm not the best writer. I'm currently working full time, but that is to support my disabled mother and I can't spare any funds really to my schooling. Does anyone know of other options? Thank you.",2,4,12.91436019577086,college
Not sure what direction to take. Need some advice.,"I went to college right out of school. It went... ok. Wasn’t great or bad. I struggled with a few things (in school and in my personal life) so it became an on/off thing. Then I think I stoped at the end of 2017. I was really bad at planning things and meeting with counselors so I didn’t see the end in sight. 


Now I really want to go back and accomplish something but I’m not sure if going back to computer science is what I want. I’ve been looking into other similar subjects that interest me and possibly trade schools. I would hate to have to start from scratch but maybe somebody could suggest an option that offers some middle ground for me. 


If anyone have any suggestions or advice I’d really appreciate it. Thank you.",1,1,12.926732880956044,college
Letter of Rec- Professor Left the University?,"I need a letter of recommendation for an on-campus program I'm applying to. I had a professor in mind who I wanted to ask, but he left after this past semester and now teaches at a different school. The other professor I would typically ask can't do it because she's the director of the program I'm applying to. The one who left is really the only other one who I got to know pretty well last year (I'm a sophomore so I haven't had a ton of different professors).

Basically, I'm wondering if  it would be acceptable for me to ask the professor who left to write the letter. I'm not sure if the university would care that I chose a professor who now teaches at a different school. He taught at my university and its law school for several years, and I know he was regarded in pretty high esteem while he was here, but would it be better for me to ask someone who currently teaches here anyway?",5,2,12.94523982540049,college
I feel like crying... all the time,"Edit : I’ve already read the “how to make friends guide here”

I’m about 2 months into my first year of college. Going into college I was so hopeful in making some friends, since I’d lost all of my mine in junior year of high school.

Instead, I have 1 person who I talk to maybe once a week outside of classes.

I feel like crying all the time because I see people having fun and laughing with their friends and I dont have any.

I dont know how, where, or when to approach people. And it’s weird bc with the consensus being that you need to approach people to make friends, I would have thought that at least one person would have approached me by now. But I literally havent been approached by one person. No one - not even during orientation - has walked up to me to introduce themselves, strike up a conversation, or do anything.

I hate it. I came into college knowing no one, and now I’m scared that it will stay this way.

I would approach the guys who are in my classes, but we dont have much in common. I’m a gay dude who’s majoring in engineering, and lots of people in classes talk about vaping, sports, etc... but I’m not into any of that.

I’m usually less nervous when talking to girls but there’s deadass barely any girls in my engineering classes.

But my family literally disowned me recently, and all I do is think about that. It’s my birthday tomorrow and have nothing to distract me from that, no one to talk to, and no one to even spend my birthday with.

I’m a really open person tbh. I’m literally down to try anything and give everything at least 1 shot

TLDR : I’m sad as shit bc I have no friends and dont know how, where, or when to approach people since it’s already 2 months in and people have their friend groups.",15,36,12.94785556614123,college
I need help,"Hi, I currently go to community college in my home town, this is my freshman year. My parents are making me pay for my own college. I’m trying to transfer to my dream college my sophomore year. The university is 2 and a half hours from where I live and I would need to save up for my own car if I want to go to college outside of my city. My job pays 12 an hour and I’m deciding if I should get another job to save up for next year. I’m scared I won’t have enough money to pay for the tuition. I would also have to save up for a an apartment but the apartments there are usually affordable for college students. Please give me advice on what to do I’m super lost and confused of what I should do.....",2,1,12.95234630688197,college
What did you wish you knew before you went to college?,,6,1,12.981559269844933,college
Is college harder than high school,I keep having people who’ve been to college tell me it’s easier than high school.,10,3,12.98444121428938,college
I am freaking out about a presentation,"I love my teacher, my classmates, the subject, but I am supposed to give a solo presentation for 10-12 mins in a couple weeks and I am incredibly anxious. We haven’t even gone over the directions in class, but it’s still so so so scary to me. I really like everyone in the class, and I am one of the only freshmen in the class, so maybe all my anxiety is coming from a desire to impress everyone. What should I do? Does anyone have any general tips? I’ve been looking into CBD oil and gummies since even just thinking about the presentation makes my skin tingle and my stomach twist. I want to find someone to do the project with me (the teacher allows people to partner up) but I don’t really have any friends in that class. How can I stop the anxiety? 

Sorry for the weird formatting, I’m on mobile. Also, going back to my project, does anyone know a lot about Max Reinhardt?",2,1,12.987496769844933,college
So close ... but so far away,Why is it so frustrating to be get a grade that is 1-2 points away from the next letter grade up. I know  it’s just a point but it just changes everything from saying I got a C compared to I got a B,4,6,13.020367140215305,college
Professors: How did you catch cheaters? How do you make an example of them? And How do you spot someone who is just trying to save face and isn’t actually remorseful?,"Okay okay. In all honesty, you’re probably not going to answer the first question. Who would give away their secret detection method?? Haha. 

But my curiosity is honestly sparked. I was in a discussion in another thread (if you want to look at my recent comment post) about it. I wanted to hear more from professors on Reddit. I know there are some of you here. 



I’d like professors thoughts only please. Current and retired. 

Students, please refrain from posting anything unless you’re responding to the professor’s post! :)",7,0,13.027010658733824,college
"Bombed my first exam today, any chance of me recovering from this?",I am taking this course known as Comparative Economics for my major. There are 3 tests each worth 25 % and a project worth 25 % of my course grade. On the first exam I got a 39 percent. I did not know what to expect for the exam and relied entirely on the powerpoint slides offered by the professor. I didn't find the questions hard but I had trouble remembering the information in the test. Any chance of me recovering? Some similar stories would be helpful.,1,1,13.035216677252341,college
"What should I do in a group project, when I'm the only one doing research?","So for my history class, we have a classical religions debate. The professor is pretending to be a classical era ruler, and we have to convince him to adopt our religion. 

This was announced since the beginning of the semester, and makes up a pretty big chunk of our final grade. We have selected our groups, and split topics up accordingly. But, I made a google doc for my group and added them to it. I did quite a bit of initial research, and decided to stop so my partners could do some research on their own. But two weeks have passed by, and they haven't added anything to the google doc. 

I talked to them and confirmed that I got their email address correct. I don't see how I can get a separate grade, since the professor isn't grading research, he's grading our presentation and participation in the debate. What is the best course of action here?",3,0,13.03561019577086,college
Skip Class for Early Flight,"So my only chance to go home would be this weekend bc of the long Columbus Day weekend. But the only affordable ticket home I can find is for Thursday evening. 
But the problem is that I have one class Friday morning that has a QUIZ. 
I was planning on emailing the professor to reschedule it so I can potentially take it beforehand but is missing a class bc of an early flight home a bad excuse to miss class? 
I don’t want to end up making a terrible impression on my professor just for an early/cheaper ride home.",3,0,13.0563509365116,college
Random guy is still in my apartment.,"This is a part two to what I posted asking for advice with my roommate a few days ago.

So sketchball dude is still in our apartment. It’s been two weeks. I have already spoken to my roommate asking kindly for a compromise and she regarded it for one day and he’s been here since after that one day. Have found out they are dating now and he is about to get kicked out of his apartment because he can’t pay his rent. No car, skateboards everywhere, apparently isn’t getting paid at at his job which doesn’t add up because that’s extremely illegal. He is a drug dealer and uses the only money he has to buy weed. I’ve also found bits and pieces of things indicating they are in my room so my door is locked 24/7 now. 

This is a shame because I like my roommate and the other two are bothered by it and don’t want to stand up with me. I have considered calling the apartment complex but I don’t want conflict for the rest of the year. I have no idea how to handle this one at this point.",3,9,13.056628714289378,college
Buisness degree,"I am trying to figure out what I want to do with my life, what are my options if I decide to pursue a business degree?",5,1,13.058260658733824,college
If I don't meet the minimum hours for transfer what do I do?,"Long story short I had a family death that caused me to withdraw from college in January.  I completed the fall semester but earned a dismal 1.77 GPA and 13 credit hours.  I did so poorly because of the pain and stress I was enduring while my father underwent brain cancer treatment.  I'm positive I would of done better had my situation been different. 

My question being this.  Can I apply at a college as a new freshman because I don't meet the threshold hours for a transfer student?  Some of you might say why not go back to the college I attended when I withdrew, well it was 2000 miles away and I feel the need to be closer to home for my family.  I would rather not attend community college as Im keen on getting my life back on track and not spending more time in my home town.",5,1,13.080239825400488,college
"LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES",,7,2,1841.2100860917874,college
"To all those asking “how do I make friends?” Or, “I’m lonely and can’t meet girls/guys...”","Big piece  of advice here: normally you all mention how you play video games. Shut them off! Go outside. Say hello to people. Playing video games, alone, in the dark is ISOLATION, it won’t help you ",47,15,655.4089286843797,college
I was kicked out of college for being depressed,I'm not looking for advice or reassurance I just wanted people's opinion on their decision and if they were correct in making their actions. So I entered University as a Computer engineer in fall 18. About 3 weeks in I realized how uninterested I was in this field and that this would lead to a 9-5 job I would dread having for the rest of my life. I've had an interest in film and photography since I was a kid and I still own an expensive camera and shoot with my friends all the time. I called my dad and told him that I wanted to switch to film because even if the salary is typically lower I will find more success in something that I like doing. He rejected it immediately and said that film is only a hobby and should only be done after you have done your education and gotten in a job in a traditional major. At this point I started to become severely depressed because I thought that I would never find success here and I had no idea what I wanted to do. I started to miss class and soon I completely stopped going and I never left my dorm. At the end of my term I received a 0.0 GPA and was dismissed. I appealed to the department in person and they told me that I should have dealt with my depression immediately and they didn't think I deserved a second chance. They mentioned that I was an adult now we have to take action when there was a problem and couldn't let depression stop me from seeking help. Off of this basis I was dismissed and am never allowed to return to Drexel as a student. I thought this decision was extremely harsh and there was no reason to not give me a second chance,26,5,277.08788701771306,college
How come college students don't give a fuck?,"I'm in the library right now and there's some guy wearing pajamas and slippers and it's 5 pm.

 A few weeks ago there was a guy sleeping under a table in the library, using his backpack as a pillow.

One time I was walking into the library and this normal looking guy was standing on a concrete block shouting strange words at his phone. 

 But the strangest one..... There was a guy standing completely naked in the bathroom in the math building. I kid you not, he was washing his face and his clothes were on the sink. The only other people were in the bathroom were international Asian students and they were probably confused as hell. I hope they don't think  most people do that here.

Do people just leave their fucks at home?",26,0,646.015988869565,college
tfw you spend the entire semester thinking you're a failure and the final grades are posted,,10,0,321.0070073880835,college
The university I want to transfer to makes at least one African American related course a requirement and I find it silly,"I really don't agree with this sort of requirement for ALL majors. Are there ways to challenge or petition certain general education requirements? I am all for diversity and taking a world/American culture or history course for a requirement, but forcing a computer science major to take an AA poetry, AA film, AA literature, AA history, etc. course as a requirement is a little silly. I think it is one sided and I'd rather focus on all different kinds of culture, history, art as opposed to just this specific race only. I've been looking at probably 15+ other universities and I have never seen this before. Thoughts?",38,3,822.004912480676,college
This irks me how it even got approved in the first place.,,20,0,413.99939164734275,college
My classmates are cheating on tests. What do I do?,"A bit of background, I'm a senior in an EET program, and the class is a senior-level EET specific course. The tests in this course are open notes, meaning you can use any reference materials such as the book, class notes, or worksheets, but offline only.

The last exam of the semester was extremely difficult, and as an A student I was shocked at how few problems I was able to have full confidence in solving. I know for a fact that I'm not going to be even close to an A, and this will likely cause me to receive a B in the course, and losing my 4.0 GPA. I knew that since I was the top student in the class that everyone else must've had trouble as well.

I asked other students (who I know quite well, since they're in the same program) how they did on the test. Two of them (out of a 12 person class) told me quite boldly that they brought in an answer key of the test from a past semester. They said they did well using it. The professor doesn't check what people bring it as a reference, so people did so with impunity. The chances are high that more than those just those two cheated.

So I'm beyond pissed about this. Here I am, an A student, getting a worse grade than C or B students because they found out an easy way to cheat. Say goodbye to any chance at a decent curve on the test when these clowns raise the average astronomically by cheating.

I was planning on speaking with my professor in private and blowing the lid off this situation, but is this the right move? What should I do?",21,0,312.320062943639,college
My math professor said the final exam is on december 14 and no early finals will be given under any circumstances. But i have a religious festival back home i attend every year on dec 8. Do i have a case to leave early? Read on below please.,"So i have a religious festival back home (on the other side of the world) thats important to my family and my local community. We partake in it every year and my professors always let me take my exams a week early so i can go home a week early. But this professor said no final exams will be given early under any circumstances. 

But if i pledge religious reasons do i have a case you think? Is it worth even trying?",40,0,325.22841942512053,college
STEM degrees and the job market in my area-,"I get so annoyed at being told something along the lines of “STEM is where the jobs are”  “learn to code” “learn computer programming”

In my area, very much a working class community-well, entire county and the one south of us is-there are NO stem jobs.  Unless your a Dr, a PA-C, a Nurse, Occupational or Physical therapist,  a Veterinarian then no, your not gonna find work out here with a STEM degree.  There's like maybe 25-30 STEM opened fields in my area, (unless your willing to drive/move 100+ miles away) and about 300 people fighting over them.   STEM is just for us- an over saturated field with too many applicants and far to few openings.

Degrees in Public Policy, Family Counseling, Constriction Management, Hotel/Restaurant Management, Business Management, anything to do with HR, Education for K-12, Healthcare Management/Healthcare Administration, diesel mechanics, Criminal Justice, a degree in Law, anyone with a CDL license, a degree in culinary arts/cooking, and considering we're also surrounded by several state parks that are home to old growth forests and wet lands plus a federally produced rainforest (unless Trump gets his way) any degree related Forrest Management is just as big.  Which doesn't have as many math/science classes as one would think.

For my area, earning a Bachelors or Associates degree in general studies/liberal arts makes sense. Learning to write computer code/computer programming-no I won't find a job. Major in Chemistry or Biology? If I want more than just a part time summer job with the forestry service-it's not happening. 

STEM degrees, at least where I live, isn't very marketable and honestly, your sorry ass is gonna make more money as an assistant manager at one of the casinos or a Park Ranger than you are as a computer programmer.

Is this a trend, or do I just live in one of those areas STEM is a bust?",18,1,779.3511740547501,college
College papers: Students hate writing them. Professors hate grading them. Let’s stop assigning them.,,26,2,2132.369137017713,college
You might be a college student if... (Humour),"1. You consider a spoonful of Nutella and a coffee a balanced breakfast.
2. In high school, your goal was to get a 4.0 GPA. Now, your goal is to just pass all your classes and stay in school.
3. You know how to manage your own checking account and budget, but you have no idea what your parents are talking about when they talk about money. What are all those acronyms again?
4. You get your exercise by walking from inconveniently placed classes that are five miles away from each other. Sometimes you need an umbrella! Occasionally you’ve gone to class soaked in rain, shivering, or with mud on your shoes.
5. If you’re not ready to brave the hike between classes, you can always take the shuttles! Of course, you’ll have to wait 30 minutes, miss the shuttle even though you’re running, wait another 30 minutes, and miss class!

This is not relatable for everyone, of course. But it might be for you.",6,0,430.3963476658613,college
My professor offended me and I cannot stop thinking about it,"Hello r/college! Today in my english class, my professor said something that offended me. Now I do not know if she mean it or not, but I cannot get it out of my mind. I am studying to become a music educator. Before music entered my life, my life was pretty stale. I started playing the trombone in 4th grade, but from what I can remember, my life before that had little meaning. Once I started to play my instrument, I was introduced to a whole new vast world. I met some fantastic colleagues that share the same passion as I do, and I have had some amazing opportunities to perform with ensembles around the world. To put it in a nutshell, I cannot even begin to fathom my life if I had not picked up an instrument. That is why I want to be a music teacher. I want to give students an opportunity to better their lives as it did mine. Music connects people together even though they have never met before, but with this art form, we all share the same language. My english professor told me that being a music teacher was nearly impossible. She told me that art/music classes were the first to be cut from any public school. She then stated that she did not think this career was going to happen. I kept my mouth shut, but could not help but feel offended. She told me that my dream, that my one goal in life to reach out to students through music, was a farfetched goal. I am not sure what to do now. I would like to talk to her during her office hours, but I am not sure if I should. I need some help, thank you!",17,0,2030.7377944251205,college
"My TA is fucking me over and the professor doesn't care, the dean isn't responding. What should I do?","So, I'm taking differential equations right now.  I'll spare you the details. My section of 44 people is allowed to have 2A's. Class scores were posted online - the top scores in the section are 58.1%, 56.3% (ME), and 56.2%. I just received notice he's offering the 3rd place person extra credit, which is completely fucking unfair. He claims it's because she always went to office hours, tried hard,asked questions, etc and I didn't. Too fucking bad, I still beat her.

This would ruin my 4.0 which is unacceptable. I confronted him about this and he kept getting more and more defensive. I talked to the professor and wrote a letter to the dean; nothing has happened so far. Eventually I accused the the  third place girl of fucking him for a better grade and he kicked has refused to talk to me since.

I have a meeting with the department head tomorrow. Hopefully the dean contacts me soon too. What else can I do? Contact the TA's graduate advisor?",11,2,2129.2345189621574,college
What should I major in if the only passion I have in life is drugs?,Specifically weed. Seriously?,8,0,2580.617099980676,college
"I went to my first real ""college party"" last night","And I hated it. I'm glad I did it, but now I know that I never need to do that again and I'm not missing out on anything. Yay! ",18,5,1726.3097851658613,college
I'm an incoming freshman and my assigned roommate is 9 years older than me. What do I do?,"So I'm starting college this fall and I just got my roommate information. He's a transfer student that is way older than I thought my roommate would be. I'm really confused, I thought the Resident Hall people were reasonable with their roommate assignments; I assumed all freshman would be dorming with freshman. 

Is my 'college experience' ruined? How bad will life in the dorms for me be?",26,3,1902.0679564621573,college
Please turn in cheaters,"I see cheating defended too often in this subreddit. 

For those of us that are honest and on the fence, I urge you that if you catch someone cheating, don't ignore it and hope they will get their comeuppance.

Become the comeuppance. Tell your professor. You can do it by email or in private in their office hours. If you can get evidence even better.

Don't let cheaters ace the class for nothing while you are putting in the hard work to succeed and learn. Don't let them devalue your degree. So please everyone who has even an ounce of morals, turn in your cheaters. Be an honest person. Don't believe that they will eventually get their just desserts when you can give it to them. 

The only way they will learn is if they face the consequences of their actions and the only way they can face them is if they are turned in by honest students like you.

Edit: I see the cheaters are in full force with their downvotes 

Edit2: If you don't feel comfortable naming specific students at least let your professor know that cheating is happening so they can be more vigilant on their next exam or take measures to prevent it.",23,11,321.55509766586124,college
List the top 10 most disgusting events of your college experience.,"My top ten 10

-I went to one of the top party schools in the country.  It also attracted a lot of students from blue collar families.

-with that in mind here is my list. 

10. Sex in the quiet study room.  [Hey, it had 4 walls and a lock on the door! The smell was unbearable and there were frequently used condoms lying about, this was eventually closed to students]

9. Pissing in the elevator.  [There were only 2 urinals on our 5th floor bathroom. When we had parties there was always a line.  One day I found that my car trunk key fit the firefighter operation key in the elevator, same day 10 copies were made. We would stop the elevator on our floor during party nights and use it as a urinal, for my entire college experience that elevator smelled like piss]

8. Puke in the shower.   [This actually started the first night of the first semester I was in Oz.  It was at least a weekly occurrence.  The RD had meetings with us about this on a regular basis. Eventually we were all fined 10 dollars a week in damage fee's since no individual would admit doing it. We always blamed the floor below and above us]

7. Sex in the elevator.  [since the quiet study room mentioned in #1 was closed to students after heavy use, the handy elevator key was used to stop the elevator in between floors to have sex in.  Like the quiet study room it smelled like dirty sex and condoms were frequently left there.  One elevator was designated the piss elevator, the other was the sex elevator. The only annoying part about this was, couples would knock on your door at 3-4am looking for the key, after many late night occurrences more copies of the key were made]. 

6. Shitting in lounge chairs in the lounge.  [This was only really done by a few individuals, who probably had mental problems. But nonetheless, a few times people decided to shit in the lounge and use the curtains as toilet paper.  It's hard to get that smell out.]


5. Girl pissing on chairs. [There was a lovable girl down the hall we all called “slut box”.  She didnt mind the name and would introduce herself as such.  Slut box was named so because she was a 6 but after 20 beers looked a 10, and she would literally fuck anyone.  I don't think I had ever seen her turn anyone down, ever.  She was also a raging drunk.  On more than one occasion she would get black out drunk and pull her pants down and piss on a chair, in front of everyone.] 

4. Pissing on car door handles.  [I'm not sure how this game got started but in that part of upstate NY, it is very cold most of the winter.  A “joke” people used to play on each other was pissing on someone's car door handles so that it freezes and makes it so you can't open the car door up.  Then the car owner has to chip away the frozen piss. Eventually this activity waned after several arrests were made for doing this].

3. Shitting in the girls sink.  [A good friend of mine,  who  did a lot of other nasty things, one night decided to walk into an occupied girls bathroom and pull down his pants, sit in the sink and take a shit.  The girls screamed and tried hit him with things.  All the time he thought it was funny and would try to make conversation with them,  usually saying, “oh girls, its just a little poop”.  He would often victimize different floors and different buildings. After a few semesters he got caught and was sent counseling].

2. The cum throwing game.  [This game originally started as retaliation from a previous nights' teabagging incident.  The game consisted of this: you jerk off.  Keep the cum in your hand. Knock on your targets' door.  Throw your cum at him/her. Run.   Unlike snowballs  there is no readily available ammunition to shoot back after you are hit by someones cum.  Often a victim would be seen in the hallway corner cranking it, to produce throwing cum.  As the warfare progressed, assassination attempts were common. This is when you waited until a person sits down or was talking to someone, you come up behind them and wipe cum in their hair or face.   This brutal game lasted over a semester. On some occasions the “slut box” from #6 threw  used tampons or used condoms.   Slut box was attacked a lot because she took it well and frankly we knew she would not file charges against us. Eventually a truce was called, and ended the cum throwing game.

1. Piss filled snapple bottles breaking.   [BK, a kid that lived 5 doors down from me was a full blown alcoholic, meaning he would start drinking when he woke up and drink almost exclusively hard liquor. His beverage of choice was cheap vodka and snapple.  By the time the evening came he was raging drunk.  Often too lazy or too drunk to walk to the bathroom , BK would piss in a snapple bottle and then put the snapple bottle along the wall.  As the semester progressed, his Snapple bottle collection grew.  He was actually very proud of his piss wall collection and would show visitors to the floor. One night, when his collection was as wide as the the length of the room and almost as high as the ceiling, BK accidentally knocks over the piss snapple wall of bottles and they came crashing down and broke.  In a fit of rage he smashed what unbroken ones remained.  Due to the large volume of urine, the floor below got flooded by piss.  Both rooms had to be abandoned for an entire year due to the awful smell.  Our whole floor smelled of piss for quite awhile and his roommates possessions were destroyed including a laptop.  
BK was not well liked on the floor, since he would always drunk argue with you about stupid things, and would steal your alcohol.  Often he would ask people for a little booze while holding a red solo cup.  After  handing him the bottle he would fill the red solo cup to the rim with your liquor and walk back out.  If you protested he would accuse you of being an awful Nazi.  So when BK got kicked out of the school, no one protested. ]

Anyway, lets hear your list.",26,0,2097.1193916473426,college
HEY,What surprised you the most on ur first few days in college?,5,0,620.3939171103058,college
"full time student, part time dying.",,2,0,625.6815444251205,college
Grown Woman Goes Undercover at a Frat Party (interesting article from VICE),,0,0,1383.1574934991947,college
How to do well in college: some basic strategy,"1. Take the general education courses at a community or cheaper state college.  
2. Take your general education courses first, stuff like com1, speech, and ""intro to"" classes.   
3. Do not take useless classes like ""student success skills"" that they'll try to talk you into.   
4. Never, ever, under any circumstance choose a class without first looking up the professor on ratemyprofessor.com. Some teachers are just really easy.   

5. Choose your classes on the day registration becomes available. The good teachers will be booked first. Don't wait until the last minute to register.   
6. Do all your homework and assignments on time (duh) and go to your schools learning lab to get help on assignments.    
7. If your school offers ""minimesters"", TAKE THEM! it's the 16 week course crammed into a 8 week time frame. But here's what happens in minimesters:  
a. The teachers don't want to be there for 3+ hours so you almost always get out early.   
b. Teachers underestimate the time they have so they assign less work.    
c. There's less homework because more is done in class and most teachers don't want to overload.   
   
Furthermore, minimesters allow you to fit more courses in a semester, achieve more credit hours and finish faster. Especially if you work and can only attend school 2 days a week. This is best for dumb classes like humanities and world religions that are necessary but not helpful to your degree.     
  
8. Doing the above should earn you a 4.0 GPA. Yes you may have pushed the harder classes until later but that's OK, because you have a 4.0 and teachers/advisers will now treat you with respect and bend over backwards for you because you are a value to the school.   
9. Join the honors program and honors society (phi beta kappa). You gets tons of opportunity when in phi beta kappa including scholarships and tuition discounts. You also meet people and teachers who have seniority and a lot of power in the school (they are usually honors teachers who earn that position through respect and/or are faculty leaders). If you are a socialite, befriend them, and get reference letters after class finishes. The references you receive will pull a lot more weight.   
10. You have a 4.0 GPA so you will try and fight for dear life to maintain it, knowing that a single B will forever plunge you into the 3.XX ranks. This is great motivation.   
  
These are some pretty obvious tips but I see other people in college who don't even look up their prospective teachers on ratemyprofessor. It's madness, especially on a class you don't exactly need for your career path. ",1,1,1413.8451902584538,college
Got accepted to Adrian college,,5,0,2185.1602944251204,college
Girl who sits next to me in college class smells like she smoked 20 joints before class or has weed with her in her backpack. I can’t relocate because the class is small and no other seats. What do I do?,It smells so strong I feel like I’m getting high. I’m worried I won’t pass a job drug test for my new job because online it says it can get into bloodstream if you breath it in?? ,10,0,259.31524812882424,college
[X-post r/Funny] Is this a PDF?,"So I work in one of my University's computer labs. It's still first week, and professors haven't been coming in, so its been slow for us. A student comes in today. She looks pretty nervous but goes over and logs into a computer. I sit by the printer, in case anyone has printing issues. I hear the printer start up about three minutes after she logs in. She prints, I don't know, 100-150 pages. Something to do with our school website. Anyway. She walks over, grabs them out of the printer, turns to me and says ""Are these in PDF?""

Her Prof told her to print in PDF. 
So I'm dying on the inside and just reply in a calm form, 
""Yes, those are in PDF""

(Sorry for formatting issues, I'm on Mobile atm)",19,3,1511.3403291473428,college
50 Party’s 50 states 50 colleges 1 semester,I was wondering what it would be like to take a semester off of school (currently a junior) and attend 50 parties at 50 different schools across every state! Would there be anyone interested in throwing/Co-hosting a party at there school? I would cover any cost.  I’m a member of Greek life.,13,4,444.81648655475016,college
Saw this hat from a distance. Thought it was a Colt45. My time on college took it's toll on my mental health.,,2,0,2078.284391647343,college
A friend and I are currently the only two students at a state school dumb enough to double major in biochemistry and math.  We mock other majors to make ourselves feel better.,,5,2,2474.9764865547504,college
Iowa State University is Removing Posters Saying it's okay for White Students to be Proud of their Heritage,,18,6,1085.2565675732685,college
Best way to write a letter to college President expressing my disappointment and frustration in HIM?,"I don't care about what could happen with myself at this point, I'm more concerned that my honesty might get professors or students in more of a bad situation. 

I'm really infuriated with my college's principal and his decisions, along with his abundant reckless decision making. It's a total nightmare, has anyone written something similar expressing their frustration? How far should I go and what should I write? If you're experienced, what really gets the point across? I really want him to feel it, this is all on him.

We're all beyond being nice with this guy, he's a total scumbag with no care for the lives he is destroying.",10,0,1426.7244610917874,college
"It seems like nobody in this sub believes this is a real thing, but it's finally happening to me...","That's right motherfuckers. **My student loan companies are garnishing my wages.** I woke up this morning and found the letter in my mailbox. 

No, it isn't a bill. It specifically says **""This is not a bill. We are deducting xxxxx from your paycheck."" ** My employer is getting one of these soon too.  
  
The point of this thread is that basically, everytime someone comes in here asking for advice about switching to a non-lucrative major or ""following their passion"" in light of the fact that the career prospects are awful, I mention how you have to pay your student loans back and everyone gets all butthurt about it. I was on deferment, income adjusted repayment plan, and forebearance. I looked into private companies and government incentives to help ease the burden of paying the student loans. This is what it has come to. 
  
So, once again, just to make sure everyone is clear, **YOU WILL HAVE TO PAY YOUR STUDENT LOANS BACK. IF YOU DO NOT PAY, THEY WILL TAKE IT FROM YOU.**  
  
That's not an opinion.  
  
That's not an idea.  
  
That's not an estimate.  
  
You have to pay that shit back. ",26,0,1457.3820536843798,college
"Moved to the USA and looking at courses I need to select to start my college life, I had a question:","So I moved to the USA some time ago,  grew up and went through the UK education system.  Anyway,  I work full time and thought I could do with learning some new stuff. 

I'm going through my first year and selecting core classes.

Now, I originally thought,  awesome,  as an engineer I get to study some classes I haven't done since high school..  History, Philosophy..  Subjects I enjoyed but didn't do at University as an engineer.  

Anyway,. Choosing my core history classes I'm left dumbfounded. 

Why are my only choices for history core classes the following:

-  US history to 1877 (women and gender)

-  US history to 1877 (African American) 

-  US history after 1877 (women and gender) 

-  US history after 1877 (African American) 

-  History of Texas

-  Mexican American history

- American women history 

-  Afro American history
    
    
     
Why has the school system decided that history has to be viewed from a feminist or african American perspective? Why can't I just study American history without the feminist liberal agenda?  

The only course that interests me is Texas history, I was really looking forward to studying the wars of independence and American history but  i am dumbfounded I am being forced to study it I'm regards to  feminist, Afro-American or Mexican history. 

For a country that has such an amazing short history,  I just can't begin to understand why I am being limited to such a small perspective. 
",15,1,1464.0402597028983,college
The Government Took Away My Ability To Go To School. Any Alternative Suggestions?,"Long story short, I was charged for posession of a controlled substance (my own prescription of adderall) on my college campus. Now that I have a misdemeanor drug charge, I lose my ability to receive financial aid. They also took away my driver's license.

I was a honor roll student studying Entreprenurership with a minor in computer science, 30 credits shy of graduating. I also had a startup in a local incubator, providing technolgy services to senior homes and its residents. This includes teaching seniors how to use the Internet and protect themselves from Internet fraud and developing an automated nursing station to automate the process of recording vital signs. 

Since I can no longer receive FASFA, I cant go back to school and me being in incubation was contigent on retaining student status, so I also lose my startup. Since they also took away my driving privileges, I cant even go find a job. 

(I forgot to add that the University gave me ZERO, zip, none, no disiplinary action because they see my integrity as a student)

Any suggestions?",13,0,1624.7782921103055,college
What's the most creative way you've cheated on a exam?,"Successful or not, how did you cheat in your exams?
",14,0,1022.3324703510464,college
is this fair,"so my french teacher had us do a group project, i only show up to the test and such(since i already know french she does not know i know french) so our group project had to make us do a spontaneous group interaction but i had not been the the previous class and missed my team and i guess. she just didnt put me on a team, so i show up yesterday and everybody is going up and doing there rehearsals except this one group who was not ready about 4 boys and she let them redo there speech 2 times, 1 time in class and 1 time after class. i stayed after class to ask her if i could do my project solo sinse i did not have a team and am very antisocial and she just refused said things like i am never here but i show up to every test and tried to explain to her that i work everyday and cant show up. this group project was worth 20% and now im screwed and i think she did this on purpose. what should i do",6,1,1285.156474980676,college
If you're having a hard time with college right now,"I see a lot of people on this sub that have the same recurring issue: **College is more difficult than high school**

While this is supposed to be a given, most people don't know how to adapt to the sudden change in difficulty. So I've [linked](http://mitadmissions.org/blogs/entry/is-mit-too-hard) you all an article that can explain why **you are not trying hard enough**.

I hope this helps and I wish you all the best of luck on mid terms!",2,2,1318.021637017713,college
Should i tell my teacher?,"Hello, i´m 20 years old and studying mechanic engineering right now. In the last test, for the first time in my life, i cheated. The test room was too tiny so we were too clumped together, and unintentionally, when i looked to the side, i ended up peeking at my friends test. i didn´t want to, but for the little time that i looked, i ended up getting the information to a question that otherwise i wouldn´t know how to do.

So, in the end i scored the question, and instead of getting an 8/10 grade, i got a 9.1/10. The thing is, i am vehemently against cheating, and now my conscience is pretty heavy. I know it seems that it is not big of a deal since it´s just 1.1 points and i would have gotten a good grade anyway, but it just feels wrong to me anyway.

I don´t know what to do to relieve my conscience, should i tell the teacher and apologize? that feels like the right thing to do... what is your opinion on the matter? Thanks for the help.",9,0,1478.190062943639,college
Wooooooo I rocked my first semester of college!,"I got a 3.7 this semester. Probably somewhere around 3.8 when my teachers put in the finals. This may not seem like it's that high but it's the highest GPA I have ever earned in my life. And this is a pretty big improvement coming from a 2.4 cumulative GPA in high school. 

A few disappointments; I didn't put in a lot of effort to get those grades. I didn't read any of my books unless we were going to specifically talk about what was written in the chapter. 
I didn't really spend too much time on any given assignment. I usually just did everything last minute. And I didn't really make any lasting friendships except for one guy but he is like 10yrs older than me. 

Next semester is going to be a lot tougher though. I will actually have a math to worry about and that has always been my kryptonite. And I also heard that this nutrition class that I am taking to fill a gen ed is supposed to be insanely hard. But I also got the opportunity to get private lessons on a drumset with my MUSC 1040 teacher next semester. I am looking forward to that!",6,0,1770.2054101658614,college
Why is it so easy to get an A in American universities? Are they easier?,"When comparing the grades needed to get a 4.0 or to even say you're doing well at university in my country all you need is above a 70 that will get you into honours and into masters and eventually a PhD. It seems in America the basic mark to get to progress is 80 and above. Why do Americans set progress so high up and everyone seems to achieve it? Our 75 is equivalent to a 4.0, can somebody please explain it to me",11,0,285.21929905475014,college
"Okay, ask me a question now.",,8,21,1578.1256532214168,college
My Professor went out of his way to remember all of the students' name. Here's,"why. He told a story were another professor who liked being a jerk by shouting out how much time there was on a test (you have 15 minutes left). When the final came around, a student decides to start his final faster the test was officially over, just to spike the professor. The professor decided to wait until the student was done, so he could taught him. Then the student went to turn in his test, the professor said don't even bother he already failed. The student then asked the professor ""do you know who I am?"". The professor said he didn't care. The the student said, ""so you don't know my name?"". The professor said no, it doesn't matter. Then the student took the pile of tests from the professor's desk and put his somewhere in the middle. Then walked away like a bad-ass.",8,3,1276.6723661843798,college
Teacher is taking off points on my assignment for non professional attire?,"I'm taking intro to engineering. Teacher wanted us to wear professional clothing. No one showed up in professional clothing. My teacher took off points on my presentation for it. I got a C for an otherwise good presentation. 

He made critical comments about me wearing my hat which he says made it
worse.

Is any of this in violation of some sort of teacher conduct ethics? 

This teacher has been a major dick all semester. He has a 1.5 on rate my professor with almost everyone saying he is awful. He grades way to critically and he is an adjunct professor on my campus right now. 

Are there any kind of formal complaints I can make?

There is no mention of a dress code in the syllabus and the course or campus does not have a dress code. I should also mention the teacher never said that clothing would be a matter of grade; Instead he just said he would like to see us in professional clothing.

I should also add I've taken previous courses with the engineering department; Digital Circuits & Direct Current, no dress code. Again, don't know where people are getting the idea that there is a dress code.",17,3,115.71569951771309,college
How To Talk To Your Crush In Lecture Hall,"The start of new semester not far in the future means new classes, new people and new class crushes. We all have our special reasons (or someones) for going to class, and it  isn't because we are actually interested in hearing what the professor has to say. 

So when you walk into your first class in the next couple of weeks and find that special cutie to actually show up to and dress like a human for, here's how to break the ice (and it doesn't include any polar bears). 

1. “I heard the professor is really hard.”

Ask if they have read the reviews on the professor. Make up a bogus ‘friend of a friend’ who took the class. The more elaborate story, the better.

2. “Are you taking this class for your major/general requirements?”
Whatever their answer, reply with “Oh, me too. What major? Which requirement?”

3. “Did you get the textbook for this class yet?”
There’s a reason for #brokecollegestudent. Your whole budget and barista paycheck and summer savings all somehow end up going to the five textbooks your professor put on the syllabus but won’t actually even lecture from. No matter what their major, all college students minor in complaining.

4. “Is this seat taken?”
This is also an excuse to show up to class a little late. If you’re not ready to jump into introductions, ask if you’ve missed anything yet.

5. “Do you know if he put the syllabus up somewhere?”
Pretend you never heard where the professor actually put it. Even if you’re one of those that have it printed out and hole-punched in a binder for the first day of class, just don’t and ask so they can now tell you what’s on the syllabus.

6. “Are you a –whatever- year?”
Follow their answer up with a, “Oh I just heard that all –whatever- years take this class? I don’t know, I mean I’m a –whatever- year”. That’s usually enough to start off the recycled topics of “How do you like it? What else are you taking? and Do you live in the dorms?”...

7. “Hey, weren’t you in my psych class last semester?”
Make up some characteristic you ‘remember,' so it sounds less like a line at a frat party. “Yeah, didn’t you always sit at the back of the class?"" When they say no, just laugh and let them know they have a twin on campus.

8. “Did you see that game?”
If you don’t actually know of any games, just hope they do. Who knows? You might get lucky (in more ways than one).

9. “Which TA do you have?”
Move the conversation to share about last semester’s TA from hell. Everyone’s had one of those.

10. “Do you know when the activities fair is?”
Ask about any school event – advanced screening, football game, Chinese Student Union dumpling night mixer. You can even pull out your phone and pretend a friend texted you to ask. You might even work an invite into the conversation if it goes well!",9,14,2472.0970305362316,college
"I feel like sororities and fraternities are just an easy way out for college kids to ""make"" friends.","No I'm not against Greek life by any means. A lot of my friends are rushing right now. I just see college as an opportunity to branch out and meet new people (i may get some hate for this but it's just an opinion) and it's up to you to go out and meet them. But by joining a sorority or fraternity it's almost as if it's acting as a safety net for incoming freshmen to get their friends. I don't want to say they're ""buying"" their social group, but I mean, they are paying to be apart of it so I don't know. I guess it's not a bad thing to pursue in said ""safety net"" but I'm interested in others opinions.",21,10,1865.8198661843796,college
There are too many general education requirements,"Literally half of the classes needed for my bachelors degree are general education courses. My degree is in Security Systems, which is basically Computer Security. I have to take two english classes, a psychology and sociology class, a foreign language class, an art class, a statistics class, a sciance class, a history class, and a humanities class. I also have to take 10 liberal arts and sciences electives, which can be any course in the liberal arts and sciences. All totaled, that's 20 courses (60 credits) outside of my major. Literally half of my tuition is for courses which I don't want or need. The other 20 courses (60 credits) are the ones in my major. My degree is 40 classes (120 credits) total. While an argument can be made for the specific classes like math and sciance, there is no excuse for the 10 classes (30 credits) in liberal arts and sciences electives.",35,4,1412.9843569251207,college
"For those of you who are undecided on joining Greek life, this article may help you make your decision.",,10,0,1599.1746578510465,college
"Take home final. Expects us to use the ""Honor Code"" and not look at notes or books. Facing a moral dilemma.","So, my international law professor has decided to make the final an online exam that we have a 24 hour period to complete. Once we start the exam, we only have 1 hour and 20 minutes to complete it, but we have between a 24 hour period to start it. Now, most take home exams I know allow for the usage of notes, but she wants us to use the Honor Code and not cheat or look anything up at all while doing this exam. I really like my professor and I don't want to go against her instructions, otherwise I'd feel terrible. However, I *know* that some people are going to cheat, and since the class is presumably based off a curve, this is going to fuck me over in the end. I'm not sure what to do. ",23,2,2136.222551369565,college
Fraternities Can Push Boys Toward a Terrible Sort of Masculinity—Or Help Them Resist It,,3,1,251.41084998067606,college
College professor is forcing us to pay 120 bucks for 50% of our grade.,"So my classes just started today and I was met with a paywall IMMEDIATELY with one course.

They have a software called MindTap from: MindTap® Computing, 1 term (6 months) Instant Access for Carey/DesJardins’ New Perspectives Microsoft® Office 365 & Excel 2016: Comprehensive 

They state in their first module that this software will be 50% of our final grade. If we do not buy, we will fail.

How. The. Absolute. Fuck. Is this not wrong???

Some of us cannot even fucking pay our rent on time while juggling school and work....and they expect us to pay out the ass for software that only lasts 6 months???
The worst part is, the software really only gives you access to an online PDF of the book....WHICH I ALREADY FUCKING HAVE BECAUSE FUCK PAYING FOR A BOOK IM ONLY GOING TO FUCKING USE 3 GOD DAMN PAGES OUT OF.

IS there anything I can even do about this? Or will we all just have to bite the bullet and starve for a few days.",9,0,784.3880837769723,college
College is 90% just Reddit and JUUL,,4,0,64.10919488808348,college
Can the college I committed to revoke my acceptance if I get one detention?,"So I've never been one to break rules or do anything out of the box and senior year I want to just try some new things. That being said, it's not uncommon for people to skip school and while my school hardly gives detentions, I'm wondering if I get a detention cause I skipped school will my college take back my admission?",7,0,183.1413592399353,college
"Dead Redditors, is going to college at 22 years old ‘too late’?","I’m a 21 year old male residing in Amsterdam, Netherlands. I’m considering going to college (Bachelor International Business) in 2019 (when I’ll be turning 22). I’ll wrap up college at the age of 26.

This might be a silly question since there have been people who started going to college much later and still made a successful career. 

I’m looking to get some advice from you guys.


",22,2,303.0090675732686,college
How to throw a banger party? Insane budget,"Hey guys! Alright, I'm looking to throw an absolute banger party. I practically have an unlimited budget.

The house is pretty big, two stories. Back yard kinda sucks, no pool. It's a large open area though. I'm out here in Dallas.

Alright, so I've only thrown a few low key parties, but I want this one to be an absolute banger. Here's my list so far.

1. Pro DJ
2. Special effects, lights, etc. (Def gonna get a dry ice fog machine for the end, floor looks sick with it)
3. Assortment of alcohol, was thinking maybe I could get a bartender from hooters...? Sounds like a fun idea. Maybe not lol.
4. I'll cater some nice food like BBQ, it's messy though so I'm not sure. But some bomb food for sure.
5. Pool table & Foosball table. Thinking of some PS4's through the house and some VR.

What else can you think of? Give me your craziest ideas, no chill. I'm all for it. What should I do to my back yard too, it's bare as fuck. I feel like a big ass trampoline could get lit under the influence, haha. ",18,0,352.91850044363906,college
What’s everyone thoughts of the notion “college is a scam” I need help!,"Some background ....

My brother recently dropped out of college, really no reason why, a week before class was gonna start he came to my parents and I and said he doesn’t want to go anymore. He’d rather be a claims adjuster (this was all very random and just came out of nowhere). My parents, myself and a few others tried to understand why but I guess the idea of college to him is a scam and doesn’t like it. 

We are coming up on November and he still has made zero progress to try something else. Whether it be a trade school or what have you. He hasn’t done anything in the meantime to find something else. 

We’re 22 and he’s in this idea that his career will fall outta the sky in front of him. My dads a barber and owns his own business and we even tried to talk to him about going to barber school and no. 

He wants to sit back, make money and not really “work”. 

I’ve heard the cliche of “college isn’t for everyone” and that’s fine but you have to find something else right?

Is college really a scam? He’s been listening to countless number of people who sort of feeds this notion into his head as well.

Sound off everyone. I’m totally up for everyone’s thoughts! 

Thanks!",11,0,361.46353516586123,college
More free swag from school. They have fidget spinner pens🤣 what a world we live in! I live for this stupid nonsense.,,0,0,630.8704564621576,college
GPA class average question?,"I know that this sounds like a really dumb question, but what does it mean if your grade is an A-(3.7 GPA), but the class average is a B+(3.3 GPA).",10,0,837.3981532214167,college
The 5 Most Beautiful College Campuses in America,,2,0,848.2926439621575,college
What is the best non-STEM major to get?,,20,2,866.0447157214168,college
Is it considered disrespectful to wear a bathrobe and flip-flops to class?,"Edit: Thank you for these wonderful responses! I was quite pleased to see the spectrum of well-reasoned opinions represented here, and I am happy to announce that I elected not to wear a bathrobe to class.",9,1,917.2109657214169,college
"Hey guys, starting college at age 15 this year. HELP!","As you could see from the title, I'm a 15 year old (guy) who is starting college in two weeks. I need some advice on studying and some advice on writing papers. Any help would be great! Thanks in advance!",17,0,1159.7781069251205,college
What shoes are popular?,"I am new to the sneaker market and I wanted to know what kicks are trending today in college? If you want to help me out, let me know what sneaks you wear (I'm looking along the lines of normal casual sneaks like Nike Free Runs and Nike Roshe). Thanks!",11,2,1180.0213939621576,college
Why do people in sororities & fraternities seem so fake and slimy?,"I was told by my father that fraternities and sororities sometimes have academic requirements and career aspects involved, and that the parties are just a secondary thing. So I decided to join one (sorority) and after 1 month I can safely say that I have never encountered a more vapid group of people in my life.

Why is being a normal person and being Greek seemingly mutually exclusive? I feel like you pretty much have to leave your soul & personality at home if you want to participate in this part of college life.",7,0,1360.0393569251205,college
What colleges should I realistically look at?,"I'm going to my sophomore year of high school, and in January I took the ACT and received a composite score of 31. I have a GPA of 3.8 rn. How good is a 31? My parents can't answer, and my guidance counselor retired. What colleges should I look at?",7,0,1586.8027828510467,college
An Honest College Rejection Letter,For everyone on this 'lovely' ivy tuesday.,6,0,1661.3843222028984,college
Why Undergraduate Degrees Have Become The New Diploma,,4,1,1699.168187943639,college
"Scott Walker To Cut $300 Million From Universities, Spend $500 Million On A Pro Basketball Stadium",,9,1,1716.9202828510463,college
"With Greek Week either under way or about to be under way for colleges across America, this is an interesting read. PLEASE be safe, and respect other people.",,3,0,1848.9352481288245,college
Do you really write 15+ page essays of stuff in college?,Unless you're a writing major this sounds dumb and unnecessary. How do you write that much about a topic and not run out of ideas? I honestly hope I never have to do this or I'll just take the F. ,31,1,1893.6560235917873,college
Dear Class Of 2014: Thanks For Not Disinviting Me,,3,1,1979.8942296103057,college
"To all those worried about ""unemployability"" in pursuing the major they love","I have been in love with philosophy for a long time(thus, my username), but have been discouraged and deterred from the idea of studying it extensively, both by my parents, by society, and by my own pragmatic thought, derived from the stigma philosophy has. But when I came across articles like this : 

http://pleasandexcuses.com/2012/09/06/philosophy-major/ 

and started reading 1950s literature, I realized just how stupid I had been.

Oftentimes, young people are discouraged from enriching themselves in the process of studying something that genuinely interests them, and because of this, they opt to major in something like business, or mathematics, or computer science, not because they enjoy it, but because they believe it will get them a job quickly, and a high-paying job, at that.

To those people, I highly recommend that you go out right now and read Arthur Miller's play, *Death of a Salesman*. It may be what is necessary to express clearly to you the deep truth that pursuit of money for money's sake does not bring happiness.

And the thing is, if you do what you love, you're *not* unemployable. You're probably *more* employable than those who chase a degree in business for employability's sake. Rather than becoming mediocre in a field that will consistently make you wish you were grinding your ear with a cheese-grater, you can improve yourself to excellence in an area that you truly enjoy. In the article about the utility of studying philosophy I've shared, it describes a number of skills that the degree develops in those who choose to pursue it.

They are not limited to philosophy. A History major, an English major, a Political Science major, hell, a major in almost any of the core liberal arts will cultivate those skills in you, and a major in any of those -- if you truly love it -- will, *without fail*, teach and prepare you more for adult life than the study of anything you have apathy for will.

Edit: It seems that meaning of this post may be unclear. I am *not* advocating for reckless decision-making -- my *sole purpose* in writing this all is to advise people not to be deterred from something they really want to do based solely on financial security. ",32,0,1993.0584888695648,college
Rejection help?,"I just got rejected from my dream school, NYU. I did everything right, was above the middle 50 for the sat scores, even had a letter of recommendation from one of the coaches at the school. I'm shattered. I don't know what to do, how to feel, I just feel empty. I don't want condolences, but how does one get over this? I've got safety schools, but none where I want to be, in NYC... Help? Please?",8,1,2029.7044147954907,college
Is it possible to do a Master's degree without ever having done a Bachelor's?,"I've heard a rumor there's no law that says you can't and that it's mostly a matter of convincing the right person.

Any experiences with this?",13,0,2086.0609078510465,college
Does reading science related books such as The Selfish Gene prepare me for ACT science section?,"Currently my books for ACT will be here in a month, so in the meantime is reading and understanding science books good practice, or would I be better off doing something else?
Thanks",28,0,2313.1966485917874,college
TIL Black college graduates are twice as unlucky not to be hires than their white counterparts with the same degree and school.,,25,0,1957.113315258454,college
Super professional ticket-writing by Hope College Campus Safety.,,5,2,2017.25799118438,college
Black Celebs Who Attended Ivy League Schools Without Cheating,,2,0,217.18497035104645,college
TIFU- talking my way into a parking ticket with my University’s campus police!,"Last week I was trying to get to my proper parking lot area that I had bought tags for over the summer. To explain things, I bought a parking tag for the university’s “C” lots (commuter parking). 

I had an early afternoon class, and the lot was full, and I didn’t feel like circling until somebody gave up their spot, so I decided to park in the “P” lots (Perimeter lots). I figured if anything I ripped myself off for that particular day because the P lot passes are cheaper than commuter passes. I also figured the campus police wouldn’t care. 

Wrong! 

I got done with my only class, which was econometrics, and came back to my car to see a white slip under my wiper blade. I opened it up, and it was just a warning. For whatever reason, I thought “how stupid is this?” And I decided to make an appearance into the PD service center in the campus union. 

I was talking with the officer in the service center about this, and she was a bit befuddled by this encounter, and offers to call in the police officer who issued the warning. I accepted it, and the guy comes in about 5 minutes later. I shake his hand, and basically asked for clarity on the warning, and why it matters so much as to which lot I park in. I follow up by bringing up the point that the P lot is never at capacity and the commuter lots are. 

The officer just calmly explains that parking in the lot you didn’t buy permits for, no matter how cheap, isn’t fair to those who did buy them. I asked what he meant, and gave me an opposite scenario, where someone with a P permit decides to park in the C lots then they’re going to get a citation. 

At this point, I should’ve taken my L and left, but no I just kept rambling on. I made a point to the officer that I’m not going to wait for others to clear a parking space for me, and that I’m going to continue parking in the P lot because of it never being at capacity. 

The officer says to me “ok, that’s fine, do you have a second?” I told him I’m done with classes for the day, and he tells me to hangout for a second. It felt like a long time had pass when I was in this service center, and I asked the lady behind the desk if it would be cool if I left. She says to me that it wouldn’t matter at this point. 

I asked what she meant, and she just says that my car is in the system since the day I bought the parking tags, and I gave her a “uhh?” By then the officer came back to the office and he had a brand new slip of paper for me, this time it was an actual citation. The officer follows up by saying “for you, this will be a better reminder than a warning for the consequences of parking in the wrong area.” 

Moral of the story, if you get a ticket for whatever reason by your campus PD, just stay quiet, and take the L if the infraction was for a valid reason. ",8,4,416.29867405475017,college
"The whole ""Safe Space""/""Micro Triggers"" college experience. Is this for real?","I have contributed several times on this sub. Its been 12 years since I've stepped foot on a college campus. Is this really a thing? I've seen videos of people demanding safe spaces, and not to read works of literature that might be triggers...but as an older generation I find this absurd. 

Being questioned about your convictions, and being able to rationally and intellectually respond is a precept for critical thinking skills. Admitting your position is wrong is also important if the logically laid out argument is right and forces you to reconsider your position, and thus grow.

I truly want to know if this is what higher education has turned into; because quite frankly, reality will hit you like a ton of bricks as soon as you graduate.

",28,3,1247.0382110917872,college
16 ways how top students study by Loy Machedo,"I have had the honor and privilege of mentoring students who applied for a few Top Ivy League Colleges. And I even have 2 clients who are currently at Harvard. So given my interaction with them here are some of the pointers I feel will help you become a Top Student yourself.

**1. Very Clear Cut Goal**  
Almost every Top Notch performer I have worked with has a very clear cut goal stated IN WRITING. They have this goal pasted on top of their study table, in the toilet, on a notice board in the house, and some of them even have a piece of paper in their pocket. That is the kind of obsession they have with their goal.   
  
- It is very clear. It is very specific. They have the date, the time, the number - whatever possible to make the goal as clear, as specific, as measurable and as powerful as possible. For instance - I have met a peak performer who stated “I want to run fast” rather I have met people who achieved their goal as “At the Dubai Half Marathon on 3rd December 2017, I will run 21kms in 1 hour 59 minutes”.   
  
- And once they create and craft their goal - they work backwards to where they are currently at the moment.   
  
- Top notch students have a long term strategy where they are, where they wish to go and they even know why they want to get there.

**2. Long Term Plan**
I have yet to meet a student who just planned out his future for one year. But I have met many Top notch performers who have clearly stated a long term strategy. For instance students have a clear cut goal of what their future is going to be like I will take up science stream with specialization in 123, from there I will pursue a career as a doctor who will specialize in XYZ, from the University of ABC. And after that…..”  
  
It is never a 6 months or 1 year goal. Never. It is always a career plan that is carefully and intelligently crafted for a lifetime.

**3. Backup Plans**
There is a certain thrill that comes from having an outlandish goal and achieving it. And don’t we all love to have a underdog success story! However, smart & practical people know that there is always a possibility that they may fail. So even though the student (or competitor) goes Kamakazi with a “Do or Die” attitude in heart, there is always a smart strategy being kept alive in their mind - that is in case failure comes knocking on their door. So that is where not just Plan (A) is in effect, there is always a Plan (B) kept secretly intact. And if Plan (B) doesn’t work, there is a Plan (C).

**4. 100% Family Support**  
If there is one criteria I feel is exceptionally important - it would be this one. You cannot - just cannot succeed in your goal to become a Top Student if you have an environment that doesn’t support your goal.   
  
Imagine trying to study in a noisy house where everyone is watching TV or having fun with their friends. Almost every Top Student I worked with - the Mother, the Father and the entire family was behind the youngster. You need this kind of support every single day - day-in and day-out.   
  
I have literally known parents who wake up with the young child in the morning (at 2am) prepare his/her breakfast and then go to sleep. At 5am drive the child to extra classes. After classes, the child is taken to school. En the breakfast is given. Once school is done with - again the child is picked up and brought home. Once at home - lunch, a 1 hour nap - and back to studies. And after that a break - rest and then back to studies with another tutor. Finally dinner and sleep. Throughout the entire schedule - the parent - both the Father and Mother ensure that the child is being supported towards this one goal.

 **5. Consistency **
You can not and I mean CANNOT achieve Top Notch Status if you are not consistent. It is not about taking the book for one day - reading it for 18 hours and thats it. Day after day after day the student takes up his book to study, learn, research and focus completely on his goal - to become Number 1. And there are some whom I have known to be consistent towards their goal for 12 years - which calls for incredible consistency.

**6. Total Immersion & Obsession**
If you want the 1st step and only step among everything else towards being a Top Notch Student - it would be this one ingredient. The level of Immersion (being involved and into something) and the amount of Obsession (Crazy Focus) with regards to their goal in life is beyond human. 

I remember meeting this young girl (South Indian) at my residence. Her parents had brought her to me with regards to preparing her for a Presentation. No matter what I asked her - even casually, there was only one answer, one priority, one focus - she wanted to be Number 1 in her college with the highest marks. 

When I asked her what her hobbies were, when I asked her what she did in her spare time and even when I asked her what she liked - there was only one answer - To succeed in her goal of being the Number 1 student. Even though I felt it was a bit extreme - but I was blown away with the intensity and her focus. And mind you - by speaking to her for a few minutes - I knew 100% she would achieve her goal no matter what. 

So if you want to be a Top Notch student - this element is paramount.

**7. Smart Choices of Friends**
Here is a Pop Quiz for you - 
Choose one. 

- Do you think a Rank Holder will spend time with Rank Holders who are focused on their goals of achieving Number 1 status in College, those who are studious and who love studies OR
- Do you think a Rank Holder will spend his time Dropouts, youngsters who are addicted to substances, those who have no interest in Education or in being the best?

Which one do you think makes more sense?

Remember - Mix Hot & Cold water and what do you think happens? Keep someone healthy with a bunch of unhealthy people - what do you think will happen? 

Keep this much in mind - Bankers hang around with Bankers, Scientists hang around with people of science, Bikers hang around with other fellow Bikers and Marathoners hang around with people who run Marathon. So what kinds of people you think Top Students would hang around with? In fact - ask yourself - What kinds of people would the parents of such Top Students would allow their children to be surrounded with?

**8. Smart Choices of Execution**
I get tons of ideas sent to me every single day on how to achieve a goal or a business or a new venture. And I always tell them one simple thing - Ideas are worthless. Execution is everything. For entering into the elusive world of being called a “Top Student” - its not just theories and plans that are focused upon - the execution of these plans are studied, researched and implemented. That is why some of the parents end up at my doorstep because they are searching for that ‘something new’ or that something ‘extra’ which will push their child towards success. 

So you must have ‘action’ and not just theory if you are looking to be a Top Student. And that action should be implemented not only by the Student but by the Parent also.

**9. The Power Habits**
How many times did you check your smartphone for notifications?
How many hours did you study?
What time did you wake up?
Which professor did you consult today?
How many classes have you attended during the year?

I have personally noticed that Top Students do not have any habits or engage in any activity that takes them out of their zone or away from their goals. 

You are a creature of your habits. And you cannot achieve any success in any endeavor if you do not have powerful habits. And Top Students have Powerful Habits.

**10. Self Evaluation Feedback Loop**
How would you know if a supplement offers you the benefits it says it delivers? How would you know if an exercise is truly helping you become better, faster, stronger and more competitive? How would you know if the new coach you appointed is the right coach for you?

You evaluate it through a test or you check it through constant & acute observations. 

Top notch Students constantly have tests and exams to know where they stand, how much they understood, what did they understand, where they weak points are and where they need to improve on. And it is not just one time but every single week and every single month that such tests are undertaken. 

The reason for this - they are very clear about the pace, the speed and the performance they are looking for. And just as if you had a terrible or miserable performance throughout the year during the trials - you cannot become a star suddenly on the day that it truly matters - in the same way Top Students ensure they are 100% battle tested every single moment.

 **11. Sacrifices**
I recently watched the Indian Movie Dangal (Dangal (film) - Wikipedia ) A very powerful and inspirational sports biopic staring Indian Superstar Aamir Khan where he narrates the story of how Mahavir Singh Phogat (played by Aamir Khan) ensures both his daughters become India’s first world-class female wrestlers. 

You should seriously watch the movie in its complete entirety. An exceptionally powerful movie. What I really loved about this movie was the depiction of how sacrifice was clearly shown to be the underlining factor that pushed this family and these two girls to achieve their dreams. 

I personally had moments of tears when watching this movie because it was so real. So the point I am trying to make here is - without sacrifices - truly heartbreaking and intensely blood churning sacrifices - you cannot - just cannot achieve success. Or for that matter become A Top Notch Student.

**12. The Extra Mile**
Even though I am not a Top Student where Academics is concerned, I consider myself a Top Student where my field of work is concerned which is Personal Branding, Communication & Peak Performance. And this has lead me from my simple humble beginning as an School Dropout Toilet Cleaner who started his career with nothing and no money - to being the World’s Best at what I do today - Personal Branding. And even though I am a South Indian with a South Indian accent - I have tutored and trained World Class Speakers. 

So how is this humanly possible?

It is possible because I followed one simple principle in life: 
“Never let anyone out prepare you”
If someone was practicing their speech 10 times, I choose to practice mine 100 times. If someone committed to 100 drafts, I would ensure my speech would go through 3,000 drafts. If I learnt that the industry standard while preparing a speech was 30 days before the actual speech performance - I would prepare my 365 days before the planned date. Such was my extreme planning, preparation & commitment. 

I never ever ever let anyone out-prepare me. And that is why I achieved success more than anyone else. 

If you can wake up and workout when the world is sleeping, if you can sacrifice all the pleasures of a good life just for your goal, if you can say no to others when everyone is calling you to have a good time because you need to focus on your goals - you my friend will achieve immortality.

 **13. Diet, Breathing & Meditation**
This may sound like a rather weird or unheard of combination. And to be honest, even I didn’t know this ingredient existed - however, once I started interacting with top-notch performers - I realized this was a very powerful component to the movers and shakers of our generation.

Most of the high performance achievers at Harvard, Yale & the top Ivy League schools are very particular what they eat, how much they eat and when they eat. Its not like they do not eat burgers, pizza’s and fries - but the majority are very particular about what they eat. And most of them eat to live - and not live to eat. Because end of the day - they have to get back to ‘work’. 

Where Breathing & Meditation is concerned - most of them given the amount of work they do - ensure they are able to reset their system and get back into the zone of work. And that is why they always spend time either Exercising light to ensure health and yes, Meditate to ensure their minds are fresh and powerful. 

There is nothing like having a powerful body and powerful mind as the ultimate combination.

**14. Routine**
I have stated this in almost every answer possible and nearly all successful have this particular ingredient - a Routine. 

If you haven’t read the routine I follow - here is the link:

- [Loy Machedo's answer to What is Loy Machedo's daily routine like?](https://www.quora.com/What-is-Loy-Machedos-daily-routine-like/answer/Loy-Machedo)

- [Loy Machedo's answer to Can Loy Machedo suggest a daily routine for a teenager going to college to become a successful person in life?](https://www.quora.com/Can-Loy-Machedo-suggest-a-daily-routine-for-a-teenager-going-to-college-to-become-a-successful-person-in-life/answer/Loy-Machedo)

- [Loy Machedo's answer to What is Loy Machedo's daily routine from the time he wakes up in the morning until he goes to sleep at night? Does he maintain such routine through out the year? If his routine changes then when and why?](https://www.quora.com/What-is-Loy-Machedos-daily-routine-from-the-time-he-wakes-up-in-the-morning-until-he-goes-to-sleep-at-night-Does-he-maintain-such-routine-through-out-the-year-If-his-routine-changes-then-when-and-why/answer/Loy-Machedo)

To achieve that level of success - you must have a routine. Without this - forget it.

**15. Professional Coaching & Mentoring**
Sometimes I wish someone had told me how important this particular factor was - I really really really wish I knew this. Because had I known how powerful and impactful this particular aspect was towards success - I would have begged - literally begged my parents to get me a mentor. 

Almost ALL and I mean ALL successful people have mentors. If you have a mentor, with everything else being equal - your chance to success increases at least 1000% more than the person who doesn’t have a mentor. 

Need I say more?

 **16. Money Talks**
In the end - if there is one trait that is the most unfair and most painfully obvious - it would be this one - Money. Without money, you cannot get yourself into a world-class educational institute, you cannot get yourself world class facilities, you cannot get yourself a world-class mentor and you cannot get yourself into a world-class environment. Sad as it sounds - you need money to help you make more money. And without this - you will never - and I mean NEVER be able to achieve your dreams - at least easily. 

Yes, there have been students who have been awarded scholarships, but then again - how many do you think can boast of this rare privilege? And if you are looking forward to enter in Harvard or some top notch institute - do you see it being a cake-walk? 

You need this valuable resource. And it is only those who have planned for this day will be able to access and take advantage of the opportunities that present itself. Given the amount of competition, the number of people who want to succeed and the limited number of chances available - the person who has the money - will be able to take advantage than the person who doesn’t have any.
****************

So I hope these pointers gave you some insight into what goes into being a Top Student. Let me know what you think about it in the comments section below. Would love to hear from you.

> source
https://www.quora.com/How-do-top-students-study/answer/Loy-Machedo",7,12,656.1900745177131,college
One attempted suicide and one arrest for drug sales on my dorm floor in one weekend. You could say it's been a crazy couple of days,,3,12,1697.5896231288243,college
Pro tip: Don't trust the reviews on ratemyprofessors.,"The reviews should not be a factor that persuades you to choose a professor or not. You can literally write a review anonymously and no one will ever know if you had taken the class or not. You can also upvote/downvote a review 20+ times, resulting in a biased opinion that may seem legit, but is actually not.",19,5,250.84994720289828,college
PSA: “The college experience” does not exactly exist.,This is thrown out a lot. So many people say I want “the college experience”. College is not like the movies. Most days will be spent at home or at work either studying or just relaxing and watching tv. The environment and community of a school matters. However there is no like super mega fun time every day. Do not pick a school away from home if you cannot afford it because “I want the college experience” price and comfortability should be the two biggest factors of picking a school (assuming the school is already accredited). Staying home and saving tens of thousands will be worth a lot more than moving away and going into debt. ,2,3,419.86339627697237,college
My roommate has drugs in the room. I took action but im not sure if it was right.,"I moved in yesterday whereas my roommate moved in about a week ago. I brought my fridge up early and when i opened it yesterday there was a bottle of vodka. I talked to him about that and told him I didnt want it in the room. i came back later and the vodka was just in water bottles. 

I came back from a freshman convocation and I'm pretty sure he was selling it to a guy. Then later when i got back from another freshman thing there was a different guy in there. i saw him grab a lighter and a bag from his drawer and leave the room.

At that point i talked to the RA he told me to pour the alcohol out and get serious with him about not having drugs in the room. We got to a small catholic college and I'm here on an athletic scholarship, I don't want to lose that but i don't want to piss the dude off for no reason. Should i do something different or am I just being an asshole to my roommate? ",13,0,1153.2199009066019,college
"Seriously, get over yourself. We're in college, and that place sells stuff we need dirt cheap.",,14,0,2278.207643962158,college
Why the hell do we need to take general classes?,I feel like they are the biggest waste of time. ,4,5,394.9178407214168,college
So glad I moved away for school,,8,7,2323.853211091787,college
"As a first time cook in College without a meal plan, these are life savers",,12,8,2077.916093036232,college
"Need advice, my roommate is gay and heterophobic, and I'm a straight guy.","So I just got my college room assignments recently, and it turns out my roommate is gay. This I have no problem with, he's just another guy in my mind who happens to like other guys.

The problem is that he's a self professed ""heterophobic"", even to me he's said this, and he views it as a sort of affirmative action and reverse discrimination in his eyes.

This deeply disturbs me, and as a straight male I understand that I could never truly understand the discrimination and prejudice gay people and all lgbtq have gone through in this country, but it still seems like a step in the wrong direction and definitely something that would make sharing a confined space with him for at least a year difficult.

He seems pretty firm about it, but claims he ""doesn't really care"". However, I care if I'm sharing a room with someone who has prejudice against me for my sexual orientation.

Should I request to change roommates? My college is weird and you have to room with people in your LLC which is only like 30 possible people so I don't know if it's even possible, or should I try to talk to him more about it and make the best of the situation?

I have no clue what to do right now... any advice is appreciated",15,5,116.00035229549088,college
The most creative analogy I've ever come up with in college,,3,6,2407.8695536843798,college
Anyone else very uncomfortable with co-ed bathrooms and showers?,"I have very bad bathroom anxiety as well as being in the presence of the opposite sex. I cannot use these restrooms, there are not even doors, so people walking down the hallway can see everything. 

It has been a nightmare, all of this was implemented because of one trans-person who complained... and now I don't feel safe anywhere. 

I don't understand the change, I don't know what else to do. Every other room is booked and I simply selected the cheapest option.

I hate it. I cannot shower because I have very bad anxiety about my body, as well as seeing others. I just want to go home.",8,2,52.16625507326865,college
Finals are so fucking demanding,"It’s not like you can take a sick day. If you miss a final for anything other than an emergency you’re screwed. The whole week and or weeks coming up to it is riddled with extra study sessions and papers or projects. And then finals are on the weekend and the next week, so you don’t get days off. Whoever designed this, I want you to go fuck yourself. ",1,0,306.45593099919455,college
Students who own firearms: what do you do with them when you live on campus?,"I’ll be moving in soon and I’ll be dorming in a pretty dangerous city. For that reason, i want to bring a gun (to protect myself as I often go for long walks around the city). Only problem is, it’s not allowed on campus. 

Where do I keep it? 

Edit: I **am not** going to break rules on campus. I will not bring a gun to school. I am looking for somewhere off campus to keep it. ",22,1,409.01556062882423,college
Need to vent? r/CollegeRant is for you!,"One of the r/College rules is that we don't allow content that doesn't positively contribute to meaningful discussion.  If you need to vent, rant, rage, or ramble about college, I strongly recommend posting over at r/CollegeRant, a brand new and fast-growing sub.",1,0,435.4441948880834,college
Salty professor made me look stupid,"In class we were working a problem by ourselves and the professor was walking around the room looking at answers. She looked at my answer. She asked me what I got in front of the class and it was wrong. She said it's a common mistake and that's why she called on me. I told her I didn't like that she made me look stupid in front of the whole class. She could've just as easily told us the common mistake instead of throwing me under the bus. She said she didn't mean to make me look stupid and that everyone makes mistakes. I told her after class sorry and that it's just my ego and I hate being wrong. She said she noticed my ego and she called on me to try help me with humility. (I'm the top student in the class after getting a 100% on the first 2 exams). She said she doesn't know where I learned that mistakes aren't ok. I didn't argue and just said I bet you're right and left it at that. She said of course she is right. 

I feel like I might have a little ego problem, but she does too. Insisting she is always right and knows who I am, just last class I pointed out a mistake she made on the board. What do you guys think? Am I right to be salty over this? I feel like I'm OK knowing I can make mistakes, but I don't want my mistakes broadcasted in front of everyone for no reason. ",8,0,805.0982805362315,college
"So, I went down to my community college, they are charging me over $800 for 2 classes","Intro to Business and Intro to Criminal Justice, The $800 they quoted me was for in county residents, of which I am not, so it's probably gonna be $1,600 for 2 classes(they charge double for out of county residents, its the only CC in my area)


This bullshit sounds like a For-Profit college to me, but I can't get a decent paying job without a degree it seems :/

Here is a cost breakdown:

College Fee: $36.00

Matriculation Fee: $25.00

Technology Fee: $133.50

Student Service Fee: $25.50

Academic Tuition In-County: $646.50(this will be double, so it will be around $1,300)


What can I do at this point? for 60 credits and an associates degree, will be well over $10,000


I don't think there is any point in taking 1 class, and putting that on my resume, most places around here want a degree


Guess I'm stuck making $11.50 an hour until I die.",35,1,880.1215328510464,college
"[LifeProTip] For college-goers having trouble figuring out how you're gonna say goodbye to your parents and thank them for everything they've done for you: Write a letter, print it out, and put it under their pillow right before you leave home to go move in. They won't see it until they get back.",,0,0,1091.2449587769725,college
Substituting a world language with a programming course.,"Has anybody had any luck in replacing a world language requirement with a programming course? I really don't want to take a language and I think programming would be of more benefit to me.

Do note that I am currently in my 3rd year of college.",9,2,1310.977863869565,college
How I got Accepted from Community College to America's Top Universities?,"I went From being a terrible High school that barely graduated that never had a shot at ANY University to then going on to transfer from a community college to being accepted to Americas' Top Universities in 1 1/2 years.  I got into various universities such as Vanderbilt, Georgetown, University of Virginia Etc. I researched pretty everything and understand every tip, trick and hack possible in order to get into a top University from even a community college. I also was able to pull of scholarships and financial aid that paid for 80% of my Time at University.  Everyone tells me how amazing this is and how I should write a guide of some sort. I was considering doing a course, Ebook real book, do you think this would be something that would be of interest to anyone.  Should I go ahead and follow through with it? ",5,0,1392.5619379436391,college
College suspends student for six months for saying black women are 'not hot',,2,0,1403.4322272954907,college
Why do people drink?,"First of all, I don't have anything against drinking. But I don't understand why people drink. Like I don't see the appeal of it at all. I understand that some people get drunk to forget about their problems (which does make sense to me, but I think its a poor way to deal with it). But what about people who just casually have a beer, or people who drink socially? Personally, I think that beer and vodka tastes terrible. I don't understand why you would drink something that tastes so shitty. My boyfriend tells me that beer is just something that takes getting used to, but why would you want to get used to something that tastes shitty or can lead to bad decisions and an awful hangover?",6,0,1468.0973661843798,college
"Americans that went abroad, does your degree suffice back in America?","I read a few topics on ""free"" to very low tuition at some college abroad. I was hoping to attend one in a francophone country. While that is a whole different topic, my question was if you've come back to opportunities or not? 

I know although you can get your degree abroad I've read how some organizations or companies ""don't recognize"" them. I guess as a way to keep you in the states? Also I read how education abroad ""isn't that great"" but not sure how much of that statement is just ""Americanism"" or not, I mean unless you're at MIT a lot of colleges aren't that great even here right?

Can anyone elaborate on this farther and debunk or verify? If I have the opportunity to pursue something like this abroad should I or am I just better off here? I'm already at a community college and on financial aid so the lower end of ""college"" and already not paying a lot, I do plan to transfer to a uni after my degree.",19,0,1789.0681184991945,college
Will this fuck me over? (serious),"Had to create my first throwaway just for this-
I'm 18,going to Penn state in the fall,and still don't know my times tables fully. I've made it this far (somehow) just by using calculators in class since my teachers never would mind- but I'm worried in college it'll be harder. I wanna get tutoring in college as well but I'm **really** ashamed of not knowing them all yet. I know the majority just not a couple (7,8, & 9) and feel like my tutor would think I'm stupid,and as a really prideful person that's enough to make me not go get help. :( thoughts?",13,2,1985.8485698880834,college
Should I join a frat?,"After reading the hazing AskReddit thread, I'm getting a little anxious about fraternities. I'm a senior in high school, and will likely be going to University of Maryland next year, although I might end up at Notre Dame or Princeton if I get in. I've thought about joining a frat. My dad was in one, and I've never heard bad things about it. All my friends who are in college now are in one and they seem to enjoy it. But I don't want to be a part of something like what was in the hazing thread. Are my worries justified or is the scale of this not something go be worried about?",21,0,2070.0603291473426,college
So where do I go from here?,"Right off the bat:
32 ACT, 4.0 cumulative GPA, president of National honor society chapter, tennis team, boxing, leader of the volunteers at my mosque, Chief of my school newspaper, volunteer at Vanderbilt, debate team member, various other honors and awards. 
Now that we have the ugly portion of my résumé out, I want to go to med school. I live in Tennessee, and my first choice is Sewanee (but my parents want vandy) , but I just feel lost and confused. My counselors are next to useless (and I suspect they dislike me because I drop in on them every couple of days for advice that they can never readily provide) but I want the best college for the best chance at medical school. Some more info is that I'm a pakistani american, a senior starting in August, and that I'm from a lower middle class family. How does aid work? Am I eligible for some ""good"" colleges? Will someone hold my hand and walk me through this? Lol. Thanks reddit.
",6,2,2272.106509702898,college
What are my chances of getting into a top tier school?,"I'm currently a junior in high school (Asian male, NJ, fairly high income bracket). I have a pretty good fallback plan (McGill, Canadian citizen but US resident) but I want to know the chances of me getting into a top tier school. By top tier I mean schools higher than the Duke, JHU, and Cornell tier of schools.   

My GPA right now is only a 3.70/4.56 due to a bad sophomore year. If everything pans out I should have around a 3.80 by application time. Class rank unknown as our school won't disclose it unless you need it for scholarships. My SAT is a 2400 (first try), no SAT 2s yet but I plan on taking Math 2 and Chemistry. (Not to sound arrogant but I expect to get 800s in both)  

I've taken 2 AP exams so far (Comp sci and Chinese(self study),  both 5s). This year I'm planning on taking Chemistry, Calc BC, English Language, US History, Macro economics, and Micro economics. (Again, I don't want to sound arrogant but our school prepares us for the exams very well and the vast majority of students get 5s so I expect to get 5s in all, I might get a 4 in macro/micro).

My high school is a very competitive public high school in NJ. We were ranked something like 11th in the nation for STEM fields and were pretty much the only non-magnet school in the top 50. Our average SAT was around 1900. There are a lot of very smart kids (5 kids so far have a 2400 and a lot have 2300+) and the teachers do expect a lot more out of the students than normal.    

For extra curricular activities I've been on varsity swimming for 4 years and will be captain next year. I did some assorted clubs my first two years but I didn't really like them so I've shifted to more out of school things. I'm currently an editor for an English language column in a local Chinese newspaper. Last summer I worked as a lifeguard and this summer I have a research internship at Rutgers University in biochemistry under a professor there. Throughout freshman and sophomore years I volunteered at the Chinese school doing mostly clerical work. I might also be able to volunteer at the American Cancer Society doing patient screening. I also represented NJ at the National Geographic Bee in 8th grade but I'm not sure that still has any bearing.  

tl;dr asian upper middle class male, nj, slightly above average GPA, high test scores, competitive school, varied extra curricular, good work /internship experience.   ",3,0,2383.860375443639,college
The Biggest Crock of BS Ever to Hit the Internet & Passed off as Fact,,4,0,2731.6749472028982,college
How to pick up chicks at college parties.,"I have been trying for almost a whole semester at college now, trying to get laid and have been unsuccessful.  What am I doing wrong?  I am asking reddit community to suggest ways to help me get a better chance when I go to a party. And tell me your person stories from college as well.",24,3,2898.8157342399354,college
College literally has a liberal bias.,"I took a political science class and one of our books was called, ""Winner-Take-All Politics: How Washington Made the Rich Richer--and Turned Its Back on the Middle Class."" I'm taking an Urban Sociology class where the books are called ""American Apartheid: Segregation and the Making of the Underclass"" and ""When Work Disappears: The World of the New Urban Poor""

Even the titles alone have an obvious democratic bias.

I'm a democrat who voted for obama, I just think these perspectives are not neutral.",12,12,1502.783963406602,college
An important lesson for all incoming freshmen on bathrooms,"To all of you coming to college in the fall with the intention of living here, I’m sure you’re all excited. You get freedom, and a chance at adulthood. 

This summer, I’ve had the chance to have a trial college run in my new college based upon this state run program, courtesy of New Jersey. So far, I’ve learned how to make my bed, how to make a paper, and how to poop.

When you’re at home, you tend to poop freely. At school you tend to stop, because it’s disgusting and people tend to be dirty pigs. From experience, I never went in a public bathroom at school. I just used the English Department’s bathroom, because I was really close with them and the VP didn’t care if a student asked. But most of the time, I would only go in the morning, when I first woke up, and then once I got home at 5. But that was still bad. You might live at college from August to Thanksgiving. Or you might stay during the week and go home on the weekends on laundry. Regardless, that’s five days. You should get used to it. 

My first week at college was hard, and pun intended. But I found ways around it.

There’s some things you should do:

1. Poop alone. Sometimes you won’t feel as self conscious if you have an audience. You should try to go during times when not a lot of people have breaks, like at night when everybody is partying or during class times. Say everybody on your phone has an 8 AM class, go then. Put on music or a tv show if you have to, so you forget you’re not in a communal bathroom. Don’t worry. They get cleaned on the reg, and everybody understands to clean up after them self. Only, the ones in the classrooms might not, especially if you take summer courses where 100 kids out of a 2,000 school are taking classes. My school rented out space to a day camp with the YMCA, like the pool and a science lab, so the bathrooms in one building did look like toddlers had been through it. Don’t worry though, as they aren’t usually like that. There will be that occasional person who doesn’t flush, but it’s really far between.

2. Drink a lot of soda/Gatorade/energy drinks. I’m not joking. That’s how I got me to poop. Took me days to do. At the designated mealtimes, I would drink regular Pepsi (were a Pepsi school sorry) and then at night during study hall, run to poop. Just be warned, if you drink too much, it turns your poop moss green and stinky. Try a cup or two, not the entire bottle day after day. Also, soda at college is expensive. A bottle in the vending machine, for me, was two dollars, while it was free in the mess hall (and you get unlimited drinks) and one dollar at the Rite Aid by my house. Also, for girls, be warned that those girly things are expensive. It was two dollars for a regular tampon. Bring your own. Campus might seem like a bubble, especially in rural or suburban areas, but they have ways around it.

3. Poop when you have to. From experience, I can tell you that if you let it accumulate and just wait until class ends, you’ll end up taking fifteen minutes, sitting on the toilet, sweating and in pain. The reason? I always thought I would miss something so I would stay in class and wait until I got back to my dorm. While I still tend to do it, I try my hardest to stop.

4. Poop after you eat. While it might seem like you’re a bulimic, it works. At home, I would always poop after I had a big meal, as it emptied me out and made more room. College isn’t like high school: if you have to use the bathroom, just leave. Most professors don’t care if you’re out for 15 minutes, as it might be a hike (for me it was) or you might be constipated or whatnot. Just don’t miss the entire lesson. If you just had lunch and now have to take English 101, wait for the teacher to give directions and then go. Just, don’t miss the whole lesson, or don’t poop if it’s a difficult class, like a remedial math or a chemistry course for an English major. You could end up missing something important. I always try to go after I finish my work, like after a test.

5. Try to eat poop foods. In addition to soda, there’s other things you can try: oatmeal, beans, broccoli, nuts, berries, tacos, apples, popcorn. It might depend on your cafeteria though. My school is small, so we only have one, and it’s usually only a few foods. However, we are allowed to order out. Know that college towns tend to have a lot of foods, like Chipotle, Taco Bell, etc. many of which are rich in poop foods. 

6. Force yourself to poop. If all else fails, sit on the toilet and poop. I would only advise against it if you are in class, or if there’s a line in the bathroom. You’ll either miss work or you’ll make others miss it. 

Best of luck!",10,0,457.865988869565,college
Calc Teacher's Unfair Quizzes Jeopardize my Scholarship,"So on the first two quizzes in my Calculus 1 class, I got 65%. My current grade in the class is 26/40. I NEED to get good grades; a low GPA will result in losing my huge scholarship from the college itself. I already took out both a subsidized loan and TWO I subsidized loans. I literally can't afford failure.

The issue isn't that I don't understand the topics he's teaching; it's that he throws quiz questions with subconcepts he never taught us. Searching online reviews of the teacher shows that he'll fail half his class in any given test, and doing even **more** homework questions from the book than he assigns is the way to actually pass his quizzes.

I'm seriously concerned about whether I can stay at this college, thanks to this teacher. Any advice?",8,2,1121.2905722028984,college
College rooming me with older transfer student.,"As the title says, Im going to be a first year at my college and i recently was able to contact my roommate. After following him on instagram and introducing ourselves i noticed that he was going to be a transfer, i also noticed he looks a lot older than a freshman in college. Would it be appropriate to contact my housing and request to be roomed with another freshman/my own room?",7,0,66.66208840660198,college
Any way to get a single dorm room?,"I was just assigned my room for the upcoming semester, however I was assigned a double room. I went and saw them and even stayed in one for a night during orientation. I barely slept that night due to the dead silence of the room and how moving even the slightest in the bunk bed would potentially wake the other person up.

I’m also a night owl, and am usually up very late. No roommate is going to want to deal with me being up while they’re trying to sleep and nor do I want them to have to deal with me.

The room is small and I’m claustrophobic, and with 2 people in there I will absolutely lose it. I’m already dreading going to college and this will make it so many times more worse for me. I’m not going to be able to properly study or do work unless I’m alone. It’s how I’ve always done it. And if I can’t do my work properly, that’s an issue.

Medical wise, I have a weak immune system. So I’m usually not out around too many other people or I’m usually isolated because I’m very likely to get sick going out in public, and it’s not like I even gain any sort of immunity each time.

Single rooms are not exclusive to upperclassmen either. 

So is there any way I can try and talk to the residence services and possibly get a single room? Of course telling them I’ll have a near mental breakdown due to claustrophobia or something of the sort won’t cut it. Maybe if I talk with my doctor I could get a medical reason. Possibly something like a special circumstance like a social anxiety disorder (not sure if this would cut it either, but I’m almost 100% sure I have one even though it’s not diagnosed).

I’m literally having an anxiety attack now thinking about all this. It’s especially bad because it’s not like I’m far from home either. I’m actually within the commuting range limit, but the drive is still too much to do it daily. The feeling of being so close to being able to commute but not being able to taunts me.",12,0,103.6314981288242,college
"Professor ""won't let"" my partner go out of town, given lots of warning and planning",So,7,0,251.96644025845384,college
Living with disorganized roommates? Check out my new app,"Check out this new app launching early 2019

Hello College students, we are a new startup called RooMates and we are currently building an app that will make living with others a whole lot easier. Real time payments, Automated chores and groceries organizer are some of the features we have.

Check out our landing page at [http://roomate.us/landing-page/](http://roomate.us/landing-page/) \* to see the full features of our app and to sign up to be beta testers.

Let me know what you guys think! If your living with roommates, would you use our app?

\*Note: Mobile site has error with its fonts, Please use ""request desktop verison"" if viewing from mobile",2,0,334.6327597028983,college
Should I delete reddit temporarily,"Exams are coming up and I keep going down the Reddit rabbithole. In class, if I get bored or tired and end up checking my feed. In social situations, I get on my phone instead of forcing myself to converse. I feel like going a week without reddit would significantly improve my grades and social life. Thoughts?",5,1,361.8980722028983,college
Why is Community College stigmatized??,,10,0,382.1531763695649,college
i have missed most of lectures this semester is there a chance that if i really grind the rest of my semester that i end up passing it?,"hi guys so at the start of my semester (10/3/2018) and i have missed probably 95% of my lectures and now im back to uni and i feel really that idk anything from what we are learning like its my first year and the second semester is harder than the first one so my question if i really  sit down and start going to lectures and studied in home like 10 -14 hours per day for the rest of the semester is there a chance that i will survive it? our first exam is on 4/7/2018,please telll me there's little hope for me :s",19,0,522.703176369565,college
Ball State University has a page dedicated to helping people choose majors based on the Myers-Briggs Personality Test,Cool. http://cms.bsu.edu/about/administrativeoffices/careercenter/explore/assessment/typefocus/whatpersonality,12,0,839.3300860917872,college
*Serious* How do I get my sister into an Ivy League School?,"I'm a first generation college student currently at NYU. My parents are immigrants, and were immensely disappointed when my sister could only go to state university and I went to NYU but not even with a full ride. Basically, they've been dragging us with the fact that ""other Brown parents who work menial jobs have their kids going into Ivy Leagues but why can't we?"". I hate College Confidential, but I feel like it's a good baseline of what's an excellent applicant. Aside from the grades, the AP Classes, the SAT/ACT scores, Merit Scholarship, what else does an applicant need? My sister is going into high school this year, and I feel like she's out of the running because she will be taking one non-honors class and won't move up till next year. I didn't even take my first AP Class until Sophomore year and that was  APUSH. There seems to be a standard that everyone is co-captain of so-and-so Varsity Sport, concertmaster of Orchestra, president of two to three clubs as a baseline. Then they do something that makes them stand out like Intel Science Finalist or National Olympiad (or National something really), or even creating a non-profit. 

I don't even remember being able to volunteer anywhere until I turned 15, so I'm not sure how to get her involved in community service until then. 

Even as I'm writing this I feel bad because I remember the immense pressure and disappointment from those years- I love my college experience now, and realized that any college is how you make it. But I guess I feel sorry for my parents on one end because they want to feel pride- it's something about making those sacrifices of your immigrant parents worth it I guess. 

Any ideas where to start with ECs? Should I draw out a plan from beginning to end, and should she try to find something to do this summer? 

Furthermore, my little sister has an interest in STEM, and wants to explore various areas of engineering. I feel like a lot of people I go to college with actually had lab experience in high school- we're right down the road from our state university, but I'm truly wondering if any sane Principal Investigator or a PhD student would take their time out of the day for a mere 14-15 year old to train them in basic skills and eventually their own research project? 

TL;DR would like my sibling to get into an Ivy 'cause my sister and I (although very happy at our respective schools) couldn't get in. ",18,0,849.9868684991945,college
I'm not liking college.,"I really don't get my college sometimes... I understand math (took college algebra this summer and passed with an A+) took a wellness course just because I needed a total of 6 credit hours to use my financial aid... (again, passed with an A+) over an eight-week period. Yet I still get talked to like I'm some type of idiot because all my academic advisor looks at is my GPA from when I was doing Non Destructive Testing Courses (was 16 at the time) and I failed that one class, now my GPA, is like a... really low number... They talk to me like I’m stupid or something and it bothers me. 

Sigh, I'm good at teaching things to myself, yet I've noticed that NOO one will take that seriously (from my understanding.) I taught myself ""basic"" programing (just enough to build viruses for fun) I taught myself how to safely navigate the deep web and all that other fun stuff that comes along with computers and browsing… Oh, and this is unrelated but I taught myself Biology (and for all the wrong reasons too.) 

Right now I'm currently teaching myself Arabic and Bengali... So why is it my advisors treat me like I’m an idiot again? Oh. I forgot, it's because when I was 16 I failed Radiology 2 while going to high school full time, as well as taking (a little over 7 credit hours) at a community college (and not by choice either.) I don’t think college is for me, but I go any way. Any one else in the same boat?
",10,1,1172.6450282214169,college
Is this ethical or allowed?,"I am a health sciences major and we just found out 2 of our classmates are living with our main lecturer. They are hush hush about it, but it seems like a huge conflict?
Is it? Curious mostly",17,0,1345.2497157214168,college
"I'm a senior in HS and have yet to drink an entire alcoholic beverage. College Redditors, when was your first and what was your reason for doing so?","I turned eighteen recently, and I had the sudden realization that most people have drank alcohol by that age. Alcohol is a big part of college culture, but I've never had the urge to try it, let alone get drunk. I'm sure once I get into the college life, I'll lose my alcoholic virginity. What stories does the reddit world have about its first beers and blackouts?

",11,0,1405.8640559991945,college
Alcohol helps me become less anxious around new people. Should I take a few glasses before orientation tomorrow?,,8,0,1549.4138129436392,college
Bernie Sanders is trying to eliminate state college tuition by raising taxes on the wealthiest on Wall Street.,,1,0,1610.8924356288242,college
UC Admission Phenomenon,"Did anyone else get into either UCLA or Cal but not the other and is surprised by it? I got into UCLA (and Davis, SB, And SC) but got denied by Cal. Same thing happened to the valedictorian at my school and I'm just really sketched out by the admission offices. Anyone else have this happen as well? Or know why it did? ",21,2,1665.0951439621576,college
More and more students are going Greek,,0,0,1729.1991022954908,college
Is college supposed to be this easy?,"Hi everyone. I just finished my first year at a large public university. I'm majoring in computer science right now, and after two semesters I have a 3.9 GPA. For me, that 3.9 is not earned through hours of effort and studying. I took 14 credit hours my first semester and 17 my second. I have seriously never studied for anything, and I do nothing on the computer in my large amounts of free time. I feel like I am wasting my time if I can do this well without pushing myself. I'm thinking of declaring a double major in mathematics. So my question is, will college get harder as courses become more in depth, and will a second major force me to try? 

Thanks and sorry if I sound like an ass",25,0,1980.2390444251205,college
Which college has the best undergraduate computer science major?,"Not just based on our list.

I want to talk to the college people. And those that know about this.

Please take into account: salary, fun, expense, and length of major. ",8,2,2021.740838406602,college
What's the deal with citations?,"I am an undergrad college student who regularly writes formal ""lab writeup"" style reports. One thing that bothers me is the exactness in citations required by my TA's. What's the deal with citations being so... arbitrary?

Firstly, I understand the obvious reason to require citation: to attribute credit to those who researched before, blah blah blah, the thing that basically the whole first lecture/lab meeting is spent preaching about... plaigarism. 

The aspect of Citation that eludes me is this: why is it so damn important to get the exact order of day month year correct, or to use a semicolon vs. a period, or putting something in italics vs. underlining? Wouldn't it be enough to clearly state where the info came from, not excluding any info, but just not being a nazi about getting the formatting correct? 

I tend to follow given guides for writing citations, and usually get back papers with red marks on the citations... so either I can't follow directions and I'm an idiot, or the people grading reports can't remember what they told us to do, and they're an idiot.

I bring this to Reddit cause the only opinion I've heard is my own and the similar ones of classmates. It just seems to me like it is a really big deal over something that's not.",4,1,2063.2540212769723,college
How To Get Off Your Dream College's Wait List,"Last week the [New York Times](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/12/education/on-the-waiting-list-some-college-applicants-try-a-little-dazzle.html?hp&_r=0) published an article discussing how some recent college-bound overachievers attempt to keep the attention of admissions board as the last open slots for the fall are offered and claimed.

Here are some tactics that absolutely **WON’T** help you secure one of those final seats at the college of your dreams:

* Sending admissions officers cookies, cupcakes, or anything unrelated to your scholastic interests.
* Having a parent obsessively email admissions officers.
Offering bribes of any kind (even really big ones).
* Claiming a school is your first choice, when it really isn’t.
* Writing non-specific notes about how you “love love love, OMG AM SO OBSESSED WITH” a school.
* Questioning a college’s judgement, or the quality of accepted students.
* Camping outside the admissions office in a tent.  Don’t take it from us, [listen to the Times](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/12/education/on-the-waiting-list-some-college-applicants-try-a-little-dazzle.html?hp&_r=0).  (Have people actually done this?)

Do you know what **WILL** work?  Writing the school of your heartfelt desires a pointed and mature letter.  Detail your continued interests and update the admissions office on any new developments and accomplishments since your initial submission.  Admissions officers are still interested in why you would be a better fit for their institution than other candidates, and an appreciation of a school’s curriculum, faculty, school spirit and history all prove genuine interest versus arbitrary obsession.  One well-articulated note is worth 4,000 empty “I love yous,” so sit down and pour your passion onto the page.  Then click “send,” and cross your fingers.  Sincere expression works wonders, and luck often decides the rest.

Source: I am the Founder and Chief Advisor at [College Essay Advisors](http://www.collegeessayadvisors.com/).",4,0,2342.0168453510464,college
snapped this in class,,4,0,2892.82955368438,college
I cannot believe how much you do not learn in college.,"I went to a pretty good university for one semester, and I felt like I barely learned anything compared to my community college also. 

I have to self teach myself outside of school consistently. 

Even when I went to IIT I didn't find the teacher quality different at all. 

You're literally just paying for a degree (at least that's how I feel).",40,1,349.3523083140094,college
"Humble brag here, but seriously",I got all As this semester and my GPA went up by .01 lmao. Sometimes I think maintaining a high GPA is not worth it at all. ,12,0,661.8829333140094,college
This is how you Senior,,7,0,2238.1584194251204,college
Welcome to finals week...,,0,0,2495.720502758454,college
Duped by diversity: Colleges corrupt their curriculum to satisfy modern progressive sensibilities,,4,0,402.97791016586126,college
Can't decide on a major at all. Help?,"I want to go to college and I want to get a job but I am so mixed. I should start off that I'm a very sane, practical minded person with extreme ideals and beliefs. by starting with these, it will set up the next part up.

A. I really would like to be immortal and believe through science it is possible
B. Jetpacks have been made, flying cars have been made and I am reasonably certain that I could make a rudimentary personal flying system that lifts someone, ie, jetpack, with enough time.
C. Both of these things on are my ""to do list"".

Now, I think that helps get a feel of who I am a bit better for the next part. I am asking for help on what to do. 

Things not interested: Many. MANY. To such a point that when someone asks ""what do you like"" it is difficult but I have pulled some things through my head to my consciousness.

Interests: I like playing video games, having sex (somewhat), creating (I don't like art at all but I do value my creations from it and enjoy them) and science (although that was my worst subject in high school.)

I've been looking into scientific majors but none really interest me.  Physicist? ehh, chemist? Never. Teacher? would hate it. Engineer? Yes but what would I be doing? What would I learn how to manipulate and make things out of? 

I am utterly stumped. This may not be the right place but I don't know where else to go to figure it out. 

Edit: editing this may be the fastest way. Thanks for all of your guys help so far. Will look into engineering and think more on sex related fields and some way to do both. More career suggestions or major suggestions are greatly appreciated. ",24,0,1635.7471578510465,college
Only two people finished the thermo exam I had (class of 160.) They both claimed to have learning disabilities and got 6hours instead of 3 because of it. What is the best way to complain about this unfairness?,,14,5,2182.146555999195,college
Top Ten Irrational Fears about College,,11,6,2112.8294032214167,college
"58% in a course? Nah sorry bro can't bump you to 60%. Try again, also give me another $1000.","So. I need a 60 in a course to do any accounting designation. I got a 58. Proff wouldn't bump me up because he's an asshole. He also said the final was open book, but decided that my notes were too good at the final and took mine away (It was one piece of paper with 2 example problems on it...). He didn't touch anyone else's notes.

He also spent the majority of lectures talking about bullshit like the types of boats germans have and how you should eat tuna sandwiches. This was a taxation class.

... So bullshit. /endrant",17,6,2498.7421115547504,college
How much of the material you learned in college did you use or have been using in your daily life as an everyday person?,"I'm upset with college because all throughout public education, i couldn't use what i learned in my daily life. Using it in your daily life retains that information so you don't forget in the future like how a lot of people do.

For example, if math is a universal language then why can't we use it in our daily life such as english? People often say that math is suppose to teach critical thinking and problem solving in which it does but if that was the only case then why don't they just call the class that? The problem is that the way they teach math is like a puzzle. It's pretty much mental masturbation, it has no practical purpose because they fail to teach how we can use it in our daily life so we don't forget it. If teachers only teach us the calculations like how they do in class, then we are no better than calculators, we are capable of understanding the purpose and history behind it which makes us different. The history is important because the history of mathematics and how it came into existence is what gives it its entertainment value which is important for memory purposes. Memorizing tasks is not nearly as easy to remember as a story. Without being taught the story, people often start to develop a lack of interest in the subject, therefore I think that might be one of the reasons for the lack of STEM majors in recent years.",16,0,1104.2674819251206,college
Application lie has gotten out of hand,"Hello everyone, I have turned to you all to help me make a decision.

BASICALLY, my dumbass decided to lie on my college application (successfully), fabricating this whole image of myself as some successful entrepreneur. I wrote that I was the co-founder/CFO of this local business that helps under-privilege youth grow their interest in education (and all this other shit). 
AND NOW, my college wants to interview and publish an article on my business on their website. My main concern is getting caught, as it would result in expulsion. And yes, I know that I shouldn't have lied (trust me I regret it). 

So Reddit please help me make a decision.

If I turn it down:
- it'll seem suspicious as who really turns down opportunities like this (it's a great way to get my name out there and to branch out)
- they might look into my application further and question it

If I accept it:
- it would be great for my career (given I don't get caught)
- risk the story getting out to my high school teachers, classmates, peers, whatever, then the risk of someone putting in the effort to make a phone call or email then game over LOL
- i was thinking of asking for my name to not be published, but the reporter might include other details about myself instead such as my high school (oh no)",6,0,1154.3724934991947,college
Group Work - How do I do the work without upsetting another member?,"(Convenient TLDR at the bottom.)

I hate group work, but I've always survived by volunteering to do it myself and allow the other members to piggyback on my grade with no slights on group member evaluations.

I'm not a flawless writer, but I've been a TA and writing fellow for science courses, taken courses specifically about writing in the sciences, and earned a 5.5/6.0 on my GRE analytical writing. It's also a sad truth that I would call only ~10% of the students I graded for ""good"" writers.

I graduated with a science degree and technical writing certificate, but have to take OChem this summer to get into my grad program. We have four people in our lab group and we must write a lab report for every experiment. The reports aren't long and I enjoy doing them, so I volunteered to do it and share it on Google Drive for them to suggest edits and give input. Only one other member has been giving input, and she's downright wrong in many things she's suggested so far.

Some were more a matter of writing style, and I made all those changes so that she could feel her input was heard, but beyond that she's placed punctuation in weird locations and said there were ""lots of run-on sentences"" in the original. There were none, she clearly believes that ""run-on sentences"" are simply long sentences, which they are not. I'm verbose, but my sentence structure is correct.

Today, as I was taking notes to prepare today's lab report, she asked me what I intended to do for various sections, and I told her. She suggested something that would be redundant and I said so, and she seemed upset and asked if I was just in charge of everything now. I told her I was not and that if she wished to write the lab reports she may, but I do insist that the bulk of the report be written by one person. I do not care who that one person is (a lie, I suspect other group members would do a bad job) but papers written piecemeal always have terrible flow problems. She didn't respond to that but seemed okay.

We will likely be working together for the next two months. The other two members seem fine with things the way they are, but she seems to want to take an active role in the lab reports. I don't want to shut her out, but I'm worried her edits will hurt the final product. What can I do?

**TL;DR**: I'm happy to do all the work for my group's lab reports. Another member seems upset she is not having a more active role in writing them, but the suggestions she *has* made indicate she would probably hurt rather than help. How do I work *with* her without a) upsetting her, b) steamrolling her suggestions, c) making her feel like I'm lecturing her on writing technique?",10,1,1225.9303870177132,college
"Oh, I see: So I can't cite Wikipedia as a source, but my textbook can.",,3,0,1241.0632689621575,college
What do colleges do with our money?,I mean 200 students pay like 5000 bucks a month i don't think they are buying new equipments with it i mean all the shit we have are from 2010 including computers. Are they eating our money? ,6,2,1358.5129680362318,college
Does anyone else think that colleges should be helping their graduates find jobs?,"I know. I'm just spitballing here. But I truly believe that if colleges/universities want their students to succeed and find gainful employment out in the world, then they should be putting forth the necessary effort. For example: Let's say you have a student graduating with a B.S. in Psychology. That student has a pretty good idea what they want to do post-graduation. And the head(s) of their department should have some pretty decent connections out there in the world. And they should focus their resources on giving this student all they need to get a start (Set up interviews, find places seeking new graduates, etc.) Idk tho, just a thought I had.",13,0,1393.7530606288242,college
The final exam students take in the nude. Really.,,8,0,1617.5451786843798,college
I have an absolutely horrible and gross roommate. I need ideas to get back at him without him knowing.,"We have five people living in my apartment. Since January, we have had a person subletting one of our rooms and he does not clean up after himself and he is on the verge of sexual predator. He is creepy and gross and I need a way to get my anger and rage out on him without him knowing it is me. (All of my other roommates support this decision.)

(We have already tried the talking to him about it route. Nothing sinks in. Serious advice is welcome, but I'm looking more for revenge/pranks.)

Edit: Yes, I understand that this is probably not the best way to take care of this. But for fuck's sake, can you let me have fun with it and brainstorm some ideas?",14,0,1677.171139332528,college
"I love my college with a passion, but it's just too expensive. Here's the link to a scholarship essay I wrote that is decided by popular vote. Any help is appreciated.",,1,1,1698.151162480676,college
I hate college (long and whiny),"I was pumped for college since before high school. Knew what I wanted to major in, had all these dreams of making friends and going out, all that jazz. Every year of school that dream got toned down -- I realized it would be a lot of work, most people don't make it, the school is huge, I'd still be in state -- but I still hoped for the best.

Now I'm here and it is hell. It takes me forever to learn everything and then I got a B on my Biology test and bombed my Chemistry test. I love my bioengineering class but I dropped Calculus because 17 hours was already too much and I just wasn't ready/wasn't getting it. Im in an honors english class but i hate it and can never think of anything to contribute and i used to love english. Now I'm changing my major, and to be totally honest nothing interests me at all. There's nothing I want to major in and there's nothing I want to do with my life.

My roommate is my best friend from high school but she's probably actually slept here 3 times since school started and I see her for an hour a day (she left yesterday afternoon and will be gone until Sunday). Besides her and my long distance best friend/boyfriend/idk I have no friends. I went to clubs and either didn't like the people, the club was related to the major I'm dropping, or have time constraints.

the course load is nothing right now yet I feel like I'm drowning. I never go to bed before 1, I feel like I'm constantly trying to reach this place of caught up/done and I never get there. 

the worst part is that I went to a really, really good school that promised to make college cake. there are people going to Yale and Harvard from there who are breezing through their classes. There are people here from that school doing well. 

I just can't do it. I can't get the material fast enough, I don't have the discipline to do what I need to, I don't have any passion, and I'm just miserable all the time. I wish I'd never heard the words 'you're so smart' growing up; it's a curse that leaves you with a ridiculous amount of pressure and expectations that you either meet or die of.",2,0,1847.3848777584537,college
You’re Not Mark Zuckerberg,,2,1,1961.1328985917871,college
What are the advantages / disadvantages of registering a party with the local police?,"I go to a small school in Ohio and out house is one of the only houses on campus which consistently throw big parties. This past weekend we threw a 24 hr marathon in which the cops came 6 times for various noise complaints and other warnings. Luckily we did not get cited, but for next time would it be worthwhile to register our parties with the cops, or do the disadvantages outweigh the benefits?",10,0,2041.1166948880834,college
Pull for Philosophy Degree,,2,0,2203.7834541473426,college
Dorm + 300 cups + Ducttape = (x-post from /r/pics),,0,0,2209.224275906602,college
Dear /r/college: What GPA do I need for an Ivy League school (Undergraduate admission),"I go to a high-ranking high school in the Midwest, and I take a mix of Honors and AP classes. I have a few good extracurriculars (Robotics club, marching band, JV tennis). My current GPA is 3.79. Is this good enough for a good school (Cornell for example?)

Tl;dr: I want advice for college admissions.",10,0,2397.1686509066017,college
Unfair grades? Should I get used to them?,"Well I just attended my first few classes at a community college. I dropped a few but the ones I kept were:

* basic English

* an ""introductory"" slash study prep (aka social free time class where we just goofed off)

* A Drawing class. 

I got nothing but Bs in all of them.

My art class was the class that took the last straw for me. In my art class my teacher was pregnant to begin with.  She was due soon and did have her child during our semester. We got another teacher to replace her who was much less forgiving in work. After the 9 or so weeks the original teacher came back and joined the substitute  teacher for final grading.

She is back for this one day to judge the work in our portfolio that we filled during the semester (during her absence). She was barely there long enough to ""know"" our work but I felt she did have a slight idea as to who were committed and who were not.. I don't know that is what I felt anyway.

Regardless, I do not think it is fair for a teacher who is barely there to be able to grade our entire portfolio in one day and have it be our final grade.  She doesn't know the context of the work environment, the students or even anything really. I ended up getting another B for whatever reason. I was one of the 10 (out of nearly 30) that stuck all the way through and barely missed a class.  Some of these assignments required us to actually go to SEVERAL locations and draw what we saw. Some students got to do the work at home opposed to in class.. etc 

Like I said at this school I am getting nothing but Bs. I've had issues here before and filing complaints get you know where.  It was never for anything academic though. 

Is this common in college? Is it common to get teachers who leave and come back like that? Is it common to get all Bs in one semester? It just seems fishy to me and I will be transferring but I just don't want to get my hopes up again in hopes of change if t his is actually common.

I only took 3 classes and my GPA now is a 3.1 is that good?  I took one class at another school that was college credit and I was able to get an A there but not here. That is the only A on my record and it was not at that school. Sorry if this sounds like whining but I'm a first gen college student so I thought I'd ask you guys.",14,0,2685.301417110306,college
Some people say college is hard. I’m not having that experience at all.,"College has been far easier, emotionally and academically, for me than high school ever was. I’m ahead in all of my classes as we approach midterms, I haven’t struggled at all, and I have 90s.... which was entirely unheard of in my high school years where I had 50s and 60s. Does anyone else feel this way? I’m blown away by how easy this is. All you have to do is show up to class and pay attention, that’s literally it.",11,2,13.857956462157546,college
Boyfriend not allowed to ride public bus with me because didn’t have his school ID - that he doesn’t get until his first day tomorrow,"My boyfriend is already nervous enough to begin with, as most people are the day before they start over as a freshman in college. But we wanted to make the most of it, and take a trip to the mall. We aren’t the richest but we go out a lot, so it’s mostly public transportation for us. 

He has a student bus pass supplied by his college and I have a 30-day unlimited bus ride card. Lately, going places hasn’t been too big of a deal because they just scan his card and we get on. But today was ironically the day where something went wrong?? It says on the card that you need a student ID present to use your bus card, and usually bus drivers can pick apart in their head that “hey, this is a young ish looking boy with nice clothes and a polite attitude, he is most likely actually starting college and didn’t steal this bus card”, and they don’t ask for his ID and he doesn’t mind because he wont get it til his first day.

We had gone to the mall a town over on the bus without an issue as we had done literally dozens of times before and today, we needed to get home because we are both tired and the bus driver sees his bus card and says “Give me your student ID” and my boyfriend kind of just goes “uhhh” at a loss and I pitch in and say, “Hey, tomorrow is his first day and he’ll have his ID tomorrow” and the bus driver says “ I don’t care, either get off or pay like everyone else.” 

Is this bus driver just rude or are we in the wrong for being unprepared? My bf was really upset afterwards and said “I’m pretty sure the cost of my tuition is a little more than the $1.75 everyone pays but ok” and we had to get a lyft home much to his distaste because we had absolutely no way to break change for another bus. I feel really bad because I know he didn’t want to spend that extra money but I just wanted to share this and ask if anyone else has ever gone through something similar?? 

Tl;dr rude(?) bus driver didn’t allow boyfriend on bus without student ID for student pass, he doesn’t get ID until literally tomorrow",16,0,52.099495814009394,college
Douche bag professor,"So, just to preface, I am a senior and I’ve been in school for five years because of major changes. In that amount of time I have never had a problem with a professor. I’ve never had any problems with grades. I usually know what I deserve and if I get a crappy grade then I typically know I didn’t do my best work and take it because I feel it’s fair.

However, this semester is different. From the start, I could tell I would have a difficult time in this class because of this guy. Basically he is a nazi about participation, which is fine but I don’t necessarily like it. I didn’t show up to class once and he marked me -4 points because I didn’t tell him. Fine, that was my mistake. I wasn’t prepared for one class because I misread the announcement and he marked me -8. How in the hell is coming to class just not having read something negative more points than actually missing class?!

Anyways, he sent out where our participation was for the semester thus far and mine is incredibly low. Other than one class missed, I have been early for class and stayed the entire time and made sure to comment and stay attentive and off my phone every single time. I have also been prepared for class every single time besides the one mix up that I had.

I basically told him how frustrated I was with the set up of his class and how I didn’t deserve a -8 for being unprepared. He got super defensive and basically told me I have a month to be better.

I found out my friend, who happens to be Asian, had received almost 100% participation when she is always late, on her phone and leaving early. I literally blew up and sent him another email about how he is biased and completely inconsistent with his grading. I haven’t heard back but I’m sure it will be another email of him being defensive.

Please tell me my anger is justified. And who can I go to to make a complaint? I’m worried that because I called him out on his crappy class structure that he will grade me low. Is there something the school can do to protect students from something like that?



Edit: I should have added why I even mentioned my friend was Asian. I just added it because there are other students in the class who have done way better than her with participation and got a lower grade so whether or not it is a race thing it is at least favoritism.

And for the assholes who are just assuming I’m a lazy worthless student, you clearly are not adults with obligations outside of school. Sometimes people mix things up. Sometimes you have to miss class. I have consistently shown that I am a good student who puts the work in. So fuck you too.",13,0,102.78308377697236,college
is anyone else as upset with american schooling as I am?,"does anyone else feel that going through the American school system is like living in a Kafkaesque universe? It's so absurdly illogical and self destructive that it is borderline comical (if you have a dark sense of humor). It reminds me of the novel ""catch 22"" in that it's such a blatantly paradoxical system that it feels like the whole government has mass psychosis. How can society justify giving so little a shit about both the people going through, and the people working in the very thing upon which it's success is hinged?",6,0,184.09394025845384,college
Roommates,"Hello I went off on spring break around a week or two ago and am almost certain that I left my pair of apple headphones in my room (the ones that come with the X). I live with 3 other roommates and we all seem to respect each other. When I came back from break my headphones weren’t in my room I was gone for a whole week and was the first or second person to leave for break. I looked around where I normally leave them and nothing. I tried to ask passively saying I left them on the counter by the sink but only one roommate replied saying he didn’t see them. I now want to request a room change but don’t want to miss out on my other roommates because one is being a dick.  Any advice?

Edit: my door was locked 
Edit 2 we stay in a apartment off campus",13,0,202.53110461030568,college
Convince me I need college.,"I've completed two years at the community college and am about to transfer to a University of California. I'm trying to get things sorted but it's a hot mess. The UC did not prep for transfer students, so I got the crumbs when it came to class choices, so my schedule makes it very hard to do any work to make money. I haven't even moved in but my landlord is already being sketchy and the area is not the best too.

I currently run my own business. When I had to push pretty hard, I made $4k in a month. Without trying, I can usually make 1.8-2.2k. In the background, I've been working on an affiliate marketing campaign building a brand that I'll soon be filtering traffic through. I feel I have all these things going for me, I don't know why I'm going through all these hoops just to set myself into what feels like an awful situation (landlord changing conditions, fighting schedule issues, burying myself in debt.)

Someone convince me otherwise. The only real reason I'm going to college is to gain acceptance from my family.
",13,0,404.65094257326865,college
How to Be Popular in College,"I feel like I just let people walk all over me so that they can accept me. I think that part of the reason I was so popular in high school is because I went to such a small school, but now that I'm on a much bigger campus people can afford to be much more selective, and obviously no one would be friends with me unless they were forced to (as they were in high school, by proximity). Sometimes I do things people say because I think it will make them like me more, but then I just feel pathetic afterward. I think the internet is making people more asocial, and that's why no one likes me. I don't know, I'm just trying not to have peaked in high school, but I have not been very successful. Why is it so hard to make friends in college?

Also, why do people use ""peaked in high school"" as an insult? It's not anyone's fault that they had a good high school experience.",17,0,432.8657110917872,college
How do I stop this kid with Aspergers from eating with me every time he sees my friend and I in the main Dining Hall?,,12,1,588.9573430362316,college
Has anyone dealt with rude behavior from dining hall staff?,"New to Reddit and this my first post, so please be nice! I graduated college on the East Coast (USA) some time back and occasionally reminisce on my “good old days.” One aspect I can’t forget are the things I personally witnessed the dining hall staff get away with:

1) Laziness. Milk, salad dressing, etc. ran out a long time ago while they’re huddled in the back kitchen talking and laughing.

2) Snippy demeanors at all times. I once asked an employee to restock the milk machine and before I could finish my sentence, I noticed eye rolling and agitation. I thought about calling her out on this, but decided it wasn’t worth an argument and a lawsuit.*

3) Health code violations. Both my friend and I found hair each of our dishes one evening. On another occasion I was eating lunch when a cleaning lady picked my plate up with her dirty, gloved hand while I was eating and proceeded to wipe the table down. 

* They made it clear to us at orientation that the dining hall staff were lawyered up through a union and would not hesitate to sue for our expulsion if an argument breaks out. 

If your college dining experience was similar to mine, then please describe it. ",13,1,616.2173661843798,college
"Whats your degree, job and salary.","Hey reddit, I am a highschool student from Canada. I thought it would be cool if you guyz would share your degrees or majors and your current job and salary. If you dont feel comfortable providing your salary online, a range is good. Also please provide your age. I would like to know what the average job prospects and salaries are for majors since i am gonna be making that decision very soon. Also provide your student debt if possible. ",27,1,886.7313592399353,college
Didn't do as well as I wanted on my first midterm.,"I have two midterms this week, and they're my first two midterms of college. Last night I had my calculus 1 midterm, but I've taken calculus before, so I expected it to be easy. There were a couple of questions I didn't really know how to answer, but I did my best to finish everything. This morning I saw my grade on the written part of the assignment (multiple choice will be posted later): 89%. I'm well aware that that's not awful, and the mean score was 72% so I'm not too bad off, I really didn't want to get less than a 95 on any of my midterms, so I'm starting college off realizing that I'm not such a big fish. Hopefully I can redeem myself with my foundations of chemistry midterm tonight. ",21,18,394.29133609178723,college
I barely passed my stats class this semester,,8,19,2262.251509702898,college
I intentionally failed out of school. How do I explain it in my readmission letter?,"It's a little difficult to phrase this question, but I'll try my best.

&nbsp;


Nearing the end of high school, mental health issues influenced a large part of my personality, consequently precluding me from any conviction that might've helped me see the value in a college education. Just having enough intelligence from having been exposed to competitive debate, classical music competitions, computer programming, and higher-level classes, I somehow convinced myself that educational institutions were not meant for ""a genius like me"", leaving me to perceive those around me as ""complacent"" and ""unimaginative"". I dually believed *against* and *for* movies like ""Good Will Hunting"" and ""The Social Network"", ***against*** other students who were more skilled in those respective areas than me, developing an inferiority complex like no other, and ***for*** myself, finding any existent nuance in my decent mathematical or programming ability as evidence of my ""similar genius"".

&nbsp;

Although my poor performance near the end of senior year should have been evidence enough for me to tone down this narcissism, the fact of my hospitalization allowed me to attribute some of this performance elsewhere. I barely made it out of high school and was accepted into the Spring Semester at a nicely-ranked university. Even this had put a damage to my psyche. Should I attend a nicely-ranked school one semester later than most of my peers, or should I attend a decently-ranked local school? I ended up choosing the former, and in order to save some semblance of a reputation I had, I attended a community college for the fall semester. Even there, I overestimated my ability as a responsible student and decided to postpone homework and walk in cold to exams because, after all, ""I'm a genius right?""

&nbsp;

Moving into the Spring semester was especially difficult since I hadn't had any friends at this out-of-state school from the previous semester, compounded by the fact that I was put into the Honors dormitory, clearly comparing myself with people who actually didn't need to study to do well. I felt that I had to prove my ""genius"" ability as a mathematician and a programmer, and started living a complete lie. I had not placed out of any classes except calculus, however, the supposed embarrassment of starting a first semester CS course after most of the freshman had already finished it drove me to lie that I was in fact taking senior-level courses, while skipping my actual classes, as to avoid being spotted by any classmates. I ended up doing this for all of my classes, getting trapped in the domino effect of rearranging my schedule.

&nbsp;

The only possible way out of this, I thought, was to go on and actually teach myself everything from these classes. At first, this seemed reasonable, but the constant flight and tension from possibly being unearthed by my parents or peers became the largest focus of my activities. I became just good enough at programming to receive internships and job offers, while learning just enough knowledge of my other subjects to carry on higher-level conversations and debates on those subjects.

&nbsp;

Nearing the end of the following fall semester, I had been following the same practice, but this time knew that I would be dismissed if I didn't start attending classes. I decided to phrase my dismissal as a drop-out, and moved to Silicon Valley, where I began working for a start-up. After all, if I'm such a ""genius"", all I need is the magical opportunity of the entrepreneur right? Well five months in, I've been ""let go"" from that opportunity, leaving me to seek job opportunities while staying at what is essentially a home retrofitted with 20+ bunk-beds.

&nbsp;

""Fortunately"", over the past year, I've come to realize that what I've needed is humility, humility to admit the truth before it explodes like a ball of fire, while being able to shut out my peers from creating any unhealthy comparisons. I've also developed a real work ethic, allowing me to acknowledge my limitations, as well as leaving room for a little grandeur now and then. However, what's helped me more than anything else has been to believe that I nor anybody else is a ""genius"". This device has allowed me to keep my reality in check.

&nbsp;

The real question now is, how on earth do I explain all of this to an admissions counselor?",18,4,1549.598477295491,college
How would you react if someone saying you dress and look homeless in college?,Some group of guys might have said it about me (not sure) and I don't think I know any group of white guys like this. But apparently they were making fun of someone with my name and saying they look homeless. I just think it's 2019 it's fuck to take the homeless issues North America has as a joke and joke that someone looks homeless. Now my friend thought it be a good idea to bring up my appearance through this conversation then regrets when I snap at her. How would you guys react if someone saying you dress like a homeless person and your appearance should be work on?,47,1,33.793882388083475,college
What are some small tricks to make you paper just a tad longer?,"I have a few up my sleeve, but I would like to know more:

1. Switch the font to Arial. Arial is larger than TNR, cambria, and calibri at all size values. 

2. Don't just make your margins 1"". Make it 1.1"".

3. Add an extra space after each indention. 

4. Spell out contractions and acronyms. 

5. Cite more for that parenthetical citation. ",6,3,310.007713406602,college
Uncomfortable Roomate Situation,"My roomate has a habit of turning on the fan at night. He says it helps him sleep but for me its just a bunch of noise. It’s also not a temperature issue since we have AC on most of the time. But the worst thing of it all, is that I’m starting to catch a cold from the fan blowing me all night all. My nose is stuffy for most of the day and my throat is getting sore. Today I woke up with a minor headache and started coughing a lot. I read online how a fan can stir up a lot of dust and pollen which can cause these symptoms. Any help on how to approach this? It seems like he can’t live without it but I’m almost considering sleeping on the couch to avoid this problem. I asked him about it but he said he’ll just put it on the lowest settings, but its on for 8-10hrs throughout the whole night. ",7,2,397.44988933252796,college
How do you cope with missing your dog in college?,I don’t know how I will survive without my fur babies,11,0,477.81709998067606,college
Failed 3 college courses. Is there any hope left?,"3/4 of my classes during my second semester, absolutely failed. My first semester went great, all A’s and my lowest a B+. 

I don’t know what to do now. I’m not on academic probation but it feels hopeless in the long run. My hopes were to get into UNC but I don’t know how that’s going to happen.

My second semester started off really well, but toward the end I got a part-time job and I became really focused on that because at the time I was almost obsessed with getting a BMW 328i. I started skipping classes more and more until I’d eventually failed. 

I’m retaking 2 of the classes I failed (BSC 1005 and SPC 1017) now over the summer semester, and I’m doing well, but is there any way I can turn things around even while having 3 F’s on my transcript? Will UNC take me?

",14,1,482.3350050732687,college
This is how I submit my assignments.,,1,0,564.9698893325278,college
Is it legal for Parents to force you to University/College?,"Is it legal for parents fo force you to University/College? And if you don't obey they will kick you out. They are not happy that i want to become a Dog-Groomer. They say it's a very dumb Idea. They rather want that i become an Doctor, Engineer, or things like that. Is that even legal? Can they force me? Can they kick me out if i don't obey them? ",38,1,618.6346578510464,college
How hard would it be to party just as hard as college kids once you're out in the real world?,"As well as finding many others to party with once you're no longer in college?

Is it possible to find parties and debauchery after college that are just as crazy as college?",9,0,1040.2203291473427,college
"There Is No ""Campus Free Speech Crisis"": A Close Look at the Evidence",,7,5,538.2656069251206,college
Why I'm leaving this subreddit,I have to go to class.,2,0,1710.0506416473427,college
How you guys live?,"So,

Recently I came across a post from a Brazilian guy who was in the USA

https://i.redd.it/3dfc1lkdmni31.png

He had to pay 17K$... [https://www.reddit.com/r/Wellthatsucks/comments/ctnb03/my\_wifes\_er\_bill\_came\_in\_today/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Wellthatsucks/comments/ctnb03/my_wifes_er_bill_came_in_today/)

How the hell you guys live not knowing how much you'll have to pay the next time you go see a doctor? Like here in Europe, for example in my country Portugal, we pay €20 for whatever we are checked for... I mean this is nuts, paying around 40k in tuition and then in a supposedly bad day, you go to the hospital and boom your bank account is 18k$ lighter... Damn it must suck live in the USA like this. I mean I would love to live in the USA, but I commonly have some issues with my sight and often blackout and have to go to the ER, but I never paid more than €20, even if they go pick me up wherever I am... Like 7 months ago I fell from the bicycle, passed out and went to the ER, they did a RX exam, and a 'brain exam' not sure the name, and I paid €20... How much would that cost in the US?

&#x200B;

Do you guys live in fear of going to the ER ?",16,2,53.11675275845384,college
I got a 25% scolarship in the college of my dreams but still can't afford it,"So, i'm pretty excited about it, i just feel like i accomplished something really great in my life (because of ""confidentiality"" i can't say what college is).
But my father was all like ""meh"" and even though my parents are trying to sell the house to get enough money to pay for college, my father is really depressed.
Does somebody has been in a similar situation? I mean, when your son gets a scolarship in college you usually would be proud or excited about it because it means that you have to pay less, but my father feels trapped because he doesn't have any resources left, no bank savings and (because i'd be a foreigner student) i am not elegible for student loans.
I'm currently working and saving money and pay some bills, but being realistic, i don't earn enough to even pay one month of college tuition.
So, if anyone has an advice or ha been in a similar situation, please tell me, thanks (:
Ps: please no mean comments or jokes, i feel sad about this.",6,3,1349.7823893325278,college
A college education is worthless unless you graduate from an elite university?,"Someone told me that a college education is completely worthless unless you graduate from an elite and prestigious university such as Harvard, Yale, Standford, Oxford, MIT, etc...

Is this really true?",23,3,1384.9037782214168,college
Harvard has a cash prize for Undergraduate Book Collecting. So the rich are getting richer?,,13,0,1441.2621462769723,college
Does anyone else **not** shower daily?,"I know that I only shower once every 2 to 4 days (depending on how lazy I am and what I have planned for the upcoming days), but please tell me I'm not alone in doing this?

My parents would never have let it fly but ... I'm on my own now.
Other people do this too right?

Edit: Let me add more information here: I normally shower every two days. If I'm extending it to three or four it's either because I'm sick or it's the weekend. I probably should have specified that earlier. My bad. ",28,5,1446.309588406602,college
I Just Came Home From College And Died A Little Inside,,1,0,1488.7277944251207,college
Still in class at 10:20,My professor is telling stupid fucking stories about his family,7,0,1505.8751208140095,college
"When ""Just Say No"" Isn't really an option. How to prepare for a day of binge drinking","I'm a freshman, and yes by this point Ive gotten aware of the antics of all my peers, and how college works. But My sororities formal is coming up. which means We start drinking at 3pm in order to get as wasted as possible for our ""dry event"" at 7. 

So what should I do? I'm a light weight, and unfortunately With alcohol I struggle to really find my limits because it seems like When ever I go to a party I'm either not drunk at all or I'm completely belligerent. So, fellow redditors what would you do if you were in the same circumstances because I want to get drunk, but I dont want to find my head in the trash later that night. ",11,0,1697.2218453510463,college
Do you know a recent college grad working at a job he/she is overqualified for?,"I'm a reporter at the IndyStar. So many studies have some out to say that not only are recent college grads struggling to find work but many are also working in jobs that they are overqualified for. Do you know someone in this situation? Are you ( a recent college grad) willing to talk about your struggle with looking for a job? 

What other issues are facing college grads or college students?
",6,2,2297.3893337769723,college
"Acceptance rates at US medical schools reveals racial profiling and affirmative discrimination for Blacks, Hispanics (Crazy!)",,17,0,1426.6674819251205,college
Now I don't have to take the final!,,2,0,2414.7620536843797,college
"""Do's & Don'ts of College"" according to my sister and her roommates",,6,5,2460.0950745177133,college
Colleges should replace BS gen ed classes with classes that teach students how to actually find jobs.,"No more art history or liberal studies BS. Make students learn how to write resumes, do well at interviews and how to survive the work place alongside their major classes. THOSE are skills college kids need and are leaving college without them. ",13,0,474.1323893325279,college
Doin' it right.,,9,20,2415.171324517713,college
USC sorority puts cow on heaviest pledge’s front door all while posting about eating disorders on facebook,,4,1,0.8280259066019897,college
College Debt.,"How do people get into unmanageable debt? Like we can all agree 50k or above is bad right?
Basic tuition and such at SJSU is 4-5k per semester. 4 years that goes to around 32 or 40k. Dorm adds 7k per semester. So is it the dorm that is the big culprit? 
Sorry for crap post quality. Not really putting much effort into this post.",14,1,6.0898314621575445,college
Tips,,0,0,18.69907914734273,college
What's a good way to beg the prof to allow me into a waitlisted class?,"Desperately need to get into a class that's been waitlisted. How do I word the email where I'll be begging the prof to kindly allow me through her sacred portal?

This is for the October mini-semester. So the class has not yet begun.",22,2,29.28837312882421,college
I got my first low grade in college.,I am an A student in my junior year; however I got my first 72 on a “100 level class.” I feel very shaken.,3,0,33.42847729549088,college
Is women wearing socks with sandals really more socially acceptable than men wearing socks with sandals?,,8,0,43.07465785104643,college
Should I join my college's gay-straight alliance club?,"Hi guys. This question should be simply enough, you would suppose. ""Join if you won't to."" But of course, there are reasons why I am hesitating. 

It is my first semester at college. I've only attended two weeks so far. I am taking 5 classes (15 credits) and though I've been told this is on the higher side, it's certainly nothing too insane, and the work doesn't seem to be too bad yet. I have already decided I am going to join the psychology/sociology club. Essentially, my main problem is that I don't know if 5 classes + 2 clubs would be ""too much"" for me. Or maybe that's not the actual reason why, and the actual reason is because I am have anxiety about people knowing I would be in the gay-straight alliance club. For some reason, the thought of others knowing I am in that kind of club gives me panic, even though I usually have no problem telling people my sexual orientation.   


So, eh. There it is. I'm completely unsure on whether I should join this club or not. I'm not even sure entirely what a gay-straight alliance club even does besides sit in a gay circle together.",3,1,45.75523655475014,college
"Professor tried to get my lab partner and I kicked out of our program for ""cheating.""","**TL;DR:** Lab partner and I collected our data and printed it out. Partner accidentally only printed one copy and xerox the data for my lab report. We got called out for cheating and threatened to get kicked out of the engineering program... Even though the data was made by both of us and it wouldn't have been a big deal if we printed two copies rather than just one and xerox scanning the other.

Prepare for wall of text:

My lab partner and I were taking a electrical engineering class. The reports were written individually, but you write down who your partner is anyways. At the end of the report, you're supposed to include your screenshot of a graph that comes out of an oscilloscope. My lab partner printed the screenshot for us. He accidentally printed only one, and rather than going back to click print again, he just grabbed the paper and xerox copied one for me. The xerox copy came out looking kind of like a xerox. We turned our lab reports in.

The following week, I we both got e-mails from our professor threatening to get us expelled and he has assigned us both an F in the class. We go confront him about why he thought we were cheating. He said that we copied each others work. This guy was super heated and red.

We both explain that we are lab partners and the screenshot was both of our work. We ask him to check attendance and see we sat at the same table together and did the work together as instructed in our manual. The TA running the lab can back us up also. We even had the file on a USB to show him. This all made the professor even more mad. He doubled down and told us ""cheating is cheating and you both will have to deal with the consequences!""

At this point, my lab partner and I knew that there was no reasoning with the professor. We had to take blame and be at his mercy. This guy had our futures in his hands. My lab partner stepped forward, told the professor he made the mistake and to give him the F and he'll retake the class. I stepped forward and said we'll take an F rather than risk being expelled from the engineering program.

The professor ended up telling us that we should learn from what we have done and he'd let us go with a warning.

Years have gone by and I've learned a lot about people. I believe he didn't see that we were lab partners on our cover sheets, sent an angry e-mail and it was too late. Rather than seeing that we were innocent, he already acted in the heat of the moment and decided to double down on it.

EDIT: What I learned from this scenario. The professor was already angry. Trying to prove our innocence to him made things worse. It sucks, but we weren't in a good position to bargain anything. The best thing we could have done was ask him kindly if he would hear us out before he came to any conclusions. This might have calmed him down a little bit, or it might not have. 

Reading people and trying to predict their actions is important. You can learn a lot in college, but some of the most important lessons are your interactions with the 1000s of people you come across campus. Learn about reading body language and tones. This is something college doesn't teach you in a book but rather indirectly.",0,0,52.199495814009396,college
Bullying situation in college upset me years later.,"There's a friend that I have been close with, ever since college. Six years ago, when I was getting ready to graduated, the campus was having an event outside. And I was eating food at the event with others. Suddenly, my friend comes to me upset. I asked him what's wrong. Apparently he was playing basketball at the campus gym, and a guy on the opposite team was targeting him, saying rude things, pushing him down, etc. Of course, I got really mad, hugged my friend and told him I'm so sorry that happened, and I tried to go find the guy to tell him off. However, I couldn't find him. we were upset about it for a bit, but my friend and I got over it quickly, he told me that he appreciated the fact that I have his back, and we moved on...

Cut to six years later, present day. I am catching up with my friend, and we're discussing the ups and downs of our experiences on college campus. Somehow, the bully incident gets brought up, and I'm mad about it again. I haven't thought about it in a long time, but hearing about it again has set me off and kind of agitated me. It put me in an ""I only wish I had been there mindset"". This was six years ago. Not sure the incident being brought up again would upset me. Maybe it's because my friend said he definitely did not forget that incident and he still remembers the guy's name. So it must have really effected him. I try not to let it get to me, because it was years ago.",14,0,53.374090721416806,college
PSA: The Spotify/Hulu bundle no longer exists.,You must resubscribe to Spotify/Hulu/showtime for the same price. This threw me through a loop when I couldn’t log in to Hulu. Figured I’d let yall know.,10,0,58.4373546103057,college
"College has F*CKED me, advice needed.","Hello my dear rutabagas, 

Let me just start by saying how screwed our higher education system is, and how every slave working for them seems to not care one bit. I have yet to find someone at my college to give me actual helpful advice....

I go to a private college for my bachelors of science in nursing. I am also a non-traditional student being that I am now 26 years of age. Last Fall I regrettably failed a course (by 2%, needed an overall 80% in class to pass). When I knew that there was a chance I may not pass the course I went to the professor who happens to be the head of the department, and a real piece of work at that (meaning she loves to see students fail, it is what brings her life). I wanted to see if it was possible to take the course again during the winterim so I wouldn't fall behind, and she said that they didn't offer the course in winter. She told me she planned on doing a hybrid course in the Spring semester that you could do with the other courses since so many students weren't going to pass. But then, of course, has to add in that if you couldn't pass the normal course that the chances of passing the hybrid course were extremely slim and that you should just retake the normal course. Why even offer that course then?! It was only designed for students who weren't going to pass anyways....

I then scheduled a meeting with my Faculty Advisor, who gave me the same spheal. She told me to look into other colleges that offer the course over winterim and to take it there if possible. She had no list of schools and no other helpful advice/options. She did tell me she would let me know of any changes or other opportunities though.

So since all my professors and advisors recommended to retake the normal course, I decided to do that. It would set me back a semester because that one class is the gate-way to all the others (such as my clinical at a hospital). I am coming to terms with this during my winter break when 2 weeks away from the start of the spring semester I find out that they did last-minute offer a winter course of the class I failed! It was so last minute only a handful of students found out about it and got to take it making them not pushed back a semester because of one course. I was angry in the moment and found many other students who felt the same way in my exact position. We pay so much money to go to this school that we should be given all the same opportunities. Why was a mass email not sent out to all students whether you passed or failed??

We all talked about going to the head of the nursing department and the Dean of the school, but once the semester started I was fully occupied. I retook the damn normal course and passed with a 92% (I also had a completely different instructor, night and day I tell ya..).

Well now the real kicker is that I just found out I don't have enough financial aid to pay for school after this year because I hit my limit. All the financial aid office at my school keeps telling me to do is to take out private loans. It is like pulling teeth to get some sort of help of other avenues I can take. 

If I would have known about that winterim class I wouldn't have to worry about a whole other semester of school I have to pay for. I feel cheated and need advice on what I should do. Is it worth it to write a letter about this to the Dean? I still have messages from students who felt betrayed like me... I know schools are businesses but this has really f\*cked me over.

&#x200B;

 **tl;dr**: Needed to retake a class, asked of options from the professor and my advisor about if there was a winter course, etc that I could take. They said our college doesn't offer that. Low and behold they ended up last minute offering said course but failed to make this information known to a lot of students. Now I am a semester behind because of this one course, and I don't have enough financial aid to cover me for that semester. Is it worth writing a letter to the Dean? What are my options? All advice welcome!

&#x200B;

Thank you and sorry for the length!!",15,2,69.26438007326865,college
Is It Bad If I Want To Go Into The Medical Field Just For Money?,"Is it bad I would want to be a surgeon or an anesthesiologist because it pays good money, well also because you save lives and it’s meaningful",33,0,73.91598886956496,college
Am I in good standing?,"So I’m about to be a Junior in high school. I am also enrolled in a CCP classes so I am taking college classes at my local community college in addition to AP and Honors courses.

I am standing with a GPA of around 4.6 at high school, and I project it will grow/remain that way throughout high school. My college classes are around a 3.00 GPA, but I figure it will be around 3.6 by the end of Senior year. 

I plan on going to a 4 year institution after high school. So with a 4.6 High School GPA and a 3.6 college GPA, am I in good standing?",3,0,137.21731988808347,college
"My mom wants me to stay in state, but i dont, need some tips.","I live in california, and as my high school career is coming to an end its time to choose some colleges. Ive done my fair share of research on which colleges are best for me, but the thing is, my dream college is UAF (Uni. of Alaska Fairbanks) and my mom is baisicly implying that im only going to apply to in state schools for one reason, in state tuition. And before you ask, I already know about, the WUI program, and my mom does as well, but she still wont budge. Like i am 100% willing to bite the bullet and do student loans, but she isnt willing to let me do it. Any tips on what i can do? Sorry if this makes no sense, its 4 Am and im just lost in thought.",11,0,139.499588406602,college
"I'm going to fail half of my classes, what's going to happen to me?","Right, to start. I'm a freshman at a California State University, trying to major in Computer Engineering. My first issue is that I am garbage at calculus 2 and the teacher I have determined and verified among other students and RateMyProfessor is absolute garbage. I am failing that course with a 66% and I have very low hopes I will be capable of raising it with the final coming 5 days from now. My second issue is that I'm perfectly good with Electrical Engineering as confirmed by the A I currently have in EECE 144. However with the second EECE course I am taking I got the major supplies and parts for the class mid-semester, and was not able to catch up on the graded homework involving the supplies. In addition to this, much like the calculus teacher I have determined and verified among the other students and RateMyProfessor that this teacher is equally not as great. I am failing this class with a 60% and have the final tomorrow. I have a 2.7 GPA and am existing on loan. As mentioned in the title, I'm currently taking 4 classes for a total of 15 units.

&#x200B;

The first question I have is, what the hell?! How is it that so many students here, at the very college I go to can party, get hammered and stoned off their rockers, and still be in better shape than me? My roomate is a party hard kind of guy where I'm just the quiet nerd that likes to sit in a corner and program all day. He's acing his classes and not having any problems whatsoever. What's he doing that's so different? How am I not capable of managing my work load, avoiding situations where I only get the tools to participate in the class midway through the semster, enjoying some semblance of a social life, and maintaining the proper health and diet? What am I doing wrong that literally every-fucking-one else has figured out to the point that they can go party on weekends.

&#x200B;

Next question, I don't know what I'm going to do from here. With a 2.7 GPA 2 F's are really going to dent that. Am I going to lose my loans? Get kicked out? Be forced to take another semester? What are my options here and how can I recover. I want to graduate 3 years from now and I feel like I'm not at all on track.

&#x200B;

Final question, what are my best and worst case scenarios? How do I recover from a hit of this magnitude? Any insight would really help as right now I'm just clueless, confused and lost.",10,0,157.57731988808348,college
Is it worth going to college?,Is it really worth going to college? I am a high schooler who has a family where they all have gone to college. I have many things that I would like to do but I dont know if I would want to do it by the end of college or in 10 years or twenty. Do any of you have an opinion on this? Thanks.,4,0,181.70877822141682,college
Why Historically Black Colleges Are Fighting To Survive,,0,0,229.90088470289828,college
I want a college that will teach me how to be good at video-editing and photoshop.,"Here are the guidelines: 

* I want it to be Hands-On, not Theoretical.
* I prefer a school in Virginia. Since that's what my scholarship only covers. 
* A school that is not too conservative or liberal. 
* I would like the Video-Editing to be my major and the graphic design can be a secondary minor.

If you can find anything that can help, I will greatly appreciate it.",13,0,299.62839627697235,college
Is college supposed to be this easy? Is it just my school?,"I'll be entering my last semester of courses for my accounting major in January and I've got two generals left for the summer. I've been to three different colleges, one public, one community college, and one private Christian one I'm in now. I have a 3.9 GPA and the reason it isn't a 4.0 is because of a college credit speech class I took in high school. I don't study very much, I don't take too many notes in class, I procrastinate a fair amount, most of my classes at all three schools didn't have comprehensive finals, and most tests are open-book, open-note. One class I'm in currently even has all tests taken online at home instead of taking up class time, so really the whole internet is your resource.

&#x200B;

Is it supposed to be this easy? I haven't struggled much at all and feel in awe at people working hard to get A's. Everything has been a piece of cake so far.",15,0,303.93987775845386,college
I have never taken business classes in high school but I will be majoring in Business in college. Am I going to be alright?,,8,0,329.1919495177131,college
How to explain to Parents that I failed College classes?,"I'm lucky enough to have parents who paid for my entire college classes. I'm on my first semester a community college and I'm in danger of failing 3 of my 4 classes. This is mostly because of some BS system they put up where D is a failing grade.

&#x200B;

 I have severe depression and I find it hard to do classes. I honestly tried my best, I got counseling for this, but I just can't do tests and my homework was sloppy, and often times I had an emotional break and had to skip classes

&#x200B;

Is there any way I could explain failing so much to parents so they don't yell at me or kick me out or anything?",15,0,332.0443106288242,college
Sick of useless advisers,"So I'm a second year struggling to pick a major, and if I don't pick one I'm certainly gonna drop out. I go to my advisers and they just make me take useless tests about interests. So useless and unhelpful, I don't know what to do. ",13,0,340.86348886956495,college
"Voting is important, so why aren’t classes canceled for the day?",A lot of people had classes and labs all day and did not have the opportunity to vote. It doesn’t make sense that a college wouldn’t cancel classes so people could go vote.,8,0,345.0974356288242,college
"I just got reported for lack of participation, being in danger of failing, and having unsatisfactory out of class grades.","I don't even know what to do about school anymore. I've been so depressed and anxious and tired I stopped going to my 8 am class. It's hard to get up at 6 when you only fell asleep at 4 or 5. I try to get in bed at 10 or 11 but just toss and turn for hours on end; I put my phone down, turn off the laptop, try meditating and nothing. I just sit there not even realizing that **hours** have gone by and next thing I know the clock says 3, then 4, then 4:30. 

I was on a low dose of trazodone last year. It is considered one of the more mild sleeping medications and is also an antidepressant. It'd leave me feeling fatigued for hours on end. I'd take it at 8-9pm and be groggy and exhausted the entire next day. I'd sleep and sleep and sleep while on it; I was only waking for 30 minutes to an hour at a time. 

I don't know what to do about my insomnia and overall poor mental health now. I'm in counselling but can't afford to get some long-term, formal help so I take what I can get. I can't take time off because I can't get out of my apartment lease and my student loans would need to be repaid. And I can't afford a drop nor a fail on my transcript. I am so ready to say fuck it and kill myself.",5,0,363.3489865547501,college
advice for friend's daughter going into college,"sorry this might be jumbled.

My friend's daughter is a senior in high school and is applying to colleges narrowing down her choices. she's pretty busy, with a 3.8gpa and about like 6 extracurricular activities. she's done her fafsa already. she doesn't know what she wants to major in but she's really great in math. that may change. she has a few scholarships lined up too!

she also has really bad anxiety about not finishing school in 4 years and she doesn't want to take any breaks if she doesn't have enough money. she's afraid if she takes a break she won't ever go back.

she stresses out about things like ""how do i carry heavy books when I can't use pdfs"" she also won't be choosing to live on campus. she made a chart of her expenses if she did live on campus. and she prob won't drive. she wants to know how to carry her books if she wants to study after class on campus. she will be about a 15 minute walk to her campus if she gets picked for the one she wants. currently in hs she has to carry her schoolbooks too like 3 textbooks and she complains a lot. i told her to leave it in the principals office and grab it when she has that class but she never took that advice i guess.

She's a little disorganized. As in I think if her classes are all over the place and there are big time blocks she doesn't know what to do. she's afraid she will fall asleep in the library or space out the whole time until her next class.

she is also thinking about tutoring part time to make some money but now she's doubting if this will be even feasible for her. she feels she might not have enough time.

i told her to go to office hours since it is important. i did that a lot when i was in college. but she is very shy and bashful so i hope she takes advantage of this.

Does anyone have any advice for her?",14,0,379.351162480676,college
Our class teacher wants us to buy a $100 online account to read info on it which will be on our test. Can I buy the account and make a summary (not completely copy&paste) and sell it to my classmates?,"Netherlands / europe. Its a huuuge price. The teacher says we are legally not forced to buy it, and the school cannot force you to buy it, but hey the info on it will be on your exam so you better buy it.

Its not a site/program from school itself but they just use it as its easier to say 'buy that and read it so we dont have to teach you ourselves'

Can i make a summary without or with little copy&pasting to sell or give it to my classmates so they dont have to buy a almost useless 100$ program? (seriously its probably like 3-4 pages max and its just administration 101 class)",3,0,397.53582683252796,college
Having trouble getting into parties,"Recently started attending a local state school as a freshman, im not having trouble making friends or anything like that, but theres NO parties on campus. Literally none. The only people who actually throw parties are the frats and if you arent a brother or a hot girl you immediately get turned away. I went the other night with a group of about 10 people, 5 guys 5 girls. Nothing, guy just told us to beat it. Is this everyones experience for the first couple weeks of college or am i alone here?",7,0,405.1958152584538,college
Do people do anything for Halloween at college?,Stupid question but I was wondering if its like high school & middle school where some people dress up,6,0,411.2784541473427,college
Should I switch rooms or stick with my weird roommate?,"Hey everyone!

I've been stressing over this decision for the past few days. So I got my roommate for residence and right away I realized we wouldn't be a good fit. I'm very social and outgoing and love parties. This person is very shy and quiet. While I wouldn't have a problem with my roommate not wanting to party, she just gives me a very weird vibe. I won't get into details, but she has really strange posts on her instagram and facebook accounts. She's very religious and certain things she's said to me have rubbed me the wrong way. Keep in mind that we have not moved in together yet.

I emailed my university about my concerns and they said they could switch me into a different room. The only issue is that this room is in a different residence, called the Thompson residence. The residence that I've gotten assigned to is attached to all the other residences so I've heard it's very good socially and for parties. However, the residence I could switch into is not attached to the resident complex. I have heard they do throw parties and are social, but because of the fact they are seperate from the other residences, it's harder to attend all the res parties.

I also face the issue of not knowing who I'm going to be paired with in the Thompson residence, so it could be with somebody equally as bad. However, I do have a friend in the Thompson residence who has said we could switch and become roommates if we both aren't vibing with our roommates.

I really don't know what to do. I know it might seem like a silly thing, but I really want to have the best university experience possible. I really don't want to room with this person, and our dorms aren't nice and private. We're going to be right next to eachother in the same room, and she makes me uncomfortable. I didn't have the best high school experience, so I want to meet more people and expand my social circle even more. 

Thank you everyone for listening to my rant, advice would be appreciated!!",12,1,454.01435692512047,college
Ugh!,The hardest part of applying to college is the waiting for an answer. ,0,0,512.7204796103057,college
Spread the Message!!,"I am trying to put together a grassroots Twitter campaign to have Congress raise the amount of money that employers may provide to working students tax-free.  This is known as the exclusion amount; it is currently $5,250 and has not been raised since 1986!!  If you adjust this for inflation the amount would be almost $12,000.  I am proposing that Congress increase the amount immediately to $12,000 and adjust it for inflation yearly.

When the limit was last raised in 1986, this was enough to pay for a full year of tuition at an average 4-year college.  Inflation and the rise of tuition have eroded this value significantly.

The cool part of this plan is that it would help reduce the amount of student loans because employers could encourage students to use their programs.  It would also help shift debt off of the Federal Government's balance sheet, and onto those of private businesses.

If you would like to help, please find your representative and let them know you would like to see this amount raised!!

https://www.house.gov/representatives/find-your-representative",0,2,527.8554448880835,college
"Got caught unknowingly copied code for a class, what excuse to say?","Please no nasty comments. If you're going to downvote or say something mean.

A friend of mine in a CS class accidentally submitted the wrong code on a HW that was from online source. This student did the hw, however, but the files were named the same and she submitted the wrong one.

The professor already informed the student he has found strong similarities between her code and online sources and possibly will suspend the student.

I was thinking she would just show the professor ""here, this is the code I actually wrote, I shouldve submitted this instead."" But class policy specifically prohibits looking at online code for hw, and since this online code is in her possession, I'm not sure what excuse she would give.

Any ideas of excuses?",5,0,540.5765675732687,college
Assignment was due by 11:59. Submitted it at 11:59:45. Professor did not accept being that it was late. Any loophole of getting around this?,,8,0,561.784113869565,college
Other ways to get into Ivy League schools!,"Hello!

Random question I thought of, and it’s been stuck in my head. Is there other ways to get into an Ivy League school other ham having good test scores?

Like minus ACT, SAT, GPA, what other ways can you get into high level schools? 

Thanks! ",7,1,567.2800976658613,college
"Do any of you sophomores+, smoke green and stay successful with grades?","Hello, I couldn’t find anything in the community info about not allowing this, if it isn’t I’m really sorry and you can remove it. I’m wondering if any of you that go to uni’s/community college in legal marijuana states do well? I smoke a lot and seem to be doing really well with my grade. I got some college credit from the CCP program and only have 5 semesters left. I smoke after all my stuff is done every night and it works out pretty well.I don’t go to class or do homework faded. I understand the risk part of it, but it really makes college decently enjoyable for me.",9,1,584.1475629436391,college
Is it bad to get drunk 3x per week?,"Most of my friends do 2 nights per week but I generally do 3x. I don't really party I just chill in my room with some friends and do it. I also don't smoke so when they're high during the week I'm sober so I guess I make up for it on the weekends (including Thursday in this).

Is this really bad? I usually have like 4-5 drinks, I'm a skinny tall female",24,0,601.9768106288242,college
My professor wants me to call him to discuss an online exam.,"First the test was open book/notes.
Second, the first part of the test was closed book/notes, BUT there was no first part, second part, etc.
Third, the test consisted of like 10 questions.
Fourth, I noticed he took the exam and exam grade off blackboard that was due the earlier this semester that was titled exam 1. He then put up part 1 and part 2 exam and is due in the next few months.

Why does he want to discuss the exam with me?
I think probably to go over what the exam will be about, etc. One part will be closed, the other will be open.",5,0,604.3490907214168,college
Experiences of college cheating?,"Either yourself, your friends, someone you know, or even any other circumstance where you could clearly see that a fellow student, whom you might not even know, was cheating on an exam? I'll tell you one particularly brazen incident that happened during my sophomore year.

I was taking an Intermediate Calculus class. Because most people do not really do anything beyond Introductory Calc unless they are math, physics, or engineering majors and it is required for their program, the class was quite small, maybe 40 people tops. It was the end of the semester and now it was time to write the final.

The midterm exam came in an envelope that we had to open at the start of the exam to retrieve the exam papers. I think this was done to ensure that nobody started the exam early until the supervisor gave the signal to start. The same practice was applied to the final, and one student clearly took advantage of that.

There was a girl in the class whom I had never really noticed before, but she was clearly in the class as she was writing the exam with the rest of the students. Idk, perhaps she had not been coming to most of the lectures or maybe I just didn't notice her, but either way she was sitting right in front of me and less than five minutes into the test I noticed something very peculiar.

Of course, the instructor had told us that we were free to write down notes and formulas *after* the start of the exam if we didn't want to forget anything, but of course we couldn't bring anything in that had information before the exam had started. When I momentarily looked in front of me as I was trying to just look over the entire test and compose myself before answering the first question, I caught a glimpse of her envelope and it was filled with writing.

At that point, I instantly knew something was off. The entire envelope was covered in notes and they seemed to be very neatly written, definitely not something that you could write in five minutes. Just to make it clear, I was sitting too far away to discern the writing, but I could clearly see that it was there, and there was quite a lot of it indeed. I decided to take another look at the envelope from an angle, and it was then that I could see that there was another envelope directly underneath it. Same dimensions, same generic brown color placed neatly under the first envelope so nobody would notice a thing. She had evidently brought a second envelope into the exam room, with the notes and formulae already written beforehand.

I wondered what to do at that point. It was the start of the test, and I was pretty sure I would be the only one to notice the cheating. I considered reporting her, but I did not want to look like a jerk and be ""that guy"" who reported her in front of the entire class. I also didn't want her to make a scene by arguing or crying as the professor was taking her exam away, as I was worried how this might affect my own mental clarity during the exam I had barely begun. I knew for a fact that there was no ""honor code"" at my school, so you could not get in trouble for simply not reporting the cheating, as long as you weren't letting them cheat off you, which I obviously wasn't so I just decided to continue my own exam and let the issue slide.

However, in retrospect there were and are a few things that really didn't sit well with me about this incident. It wasn't just the cheating itself, but also the brazenness of the cheating and the level of deception involved. When it comes to most instances of exam cheating, there is always a level of stealth involved, with a genuine fear that the professor may find out. There is always an attempt to hide the action of cheating and the materials used to commit that action when the cheating student sneaks glances at their friend's paper, opens up the crinkled cheat note that they had hidden in their sleeve, or goes to the washroom to look up some key piece of data on their smartphone. But here, the situation was different as the girl took deception to a whole new level. For her, it didn't matter if the professor or the other students saw the envelope, because she *knew* that they would simply think those were notes that she had written down *after* the exam had begun, which was perfectly acceptable. She *knew* she had an almost 100% chance of getting away with it, and was perfectly confident having the cheat envelope in plain view for all to see because she *knew* that they would be tricked into thinking those were just reminders she had written down *during* the exam. Instead of designing such elaborate cheating methods, wouldn't it have been easier to actually come to the lectures, do the recommended homework assignments and study? That's what everybody else did. Plus, I'm pretty sure I was the only one there who had any chance of catching her cheating because no other student would likely be in a position to see the second envelope neatly hidden away under the first one, and even I, if I had not noticed the writing on the envelope right at the start, would not have suspected anything.

I don't really have any hard feelings anymore given that it's been three years now, but I still wanted to share this here because it's an interesting story and really shows just what lengths some students will go to to get away with cheating, rather than actually taking the time to learn the material.",11,0,649.6902365547502,college
College is terrible,Whoever thought this up was bad and should feel bad. ,2,0,700.8230953510464,college
I feel so cheated,"Just looked back at the programs my university offers and as I look I see that NONE of the degrees offered are specific (except nursing and maybe athletic training). There are probably so many unsuspecting 18 year olds excited and getting ready to enroll in the fall with no idea that having a really really broad degree is almost no help to them in the real world, it sucks that I fell for this same trick man I just wish someone would force these schools to offer degrees that actually lead to jobs instead of pumping kids out into the real world with no actual work related skills... I feel so cheated looking back ...",23,0,702.1761046103057,college
Stoners on here that live in dorms please read.,"Hello everyone! So I am a freshman stoner who smokes heavy. I have a 3.6, am pretty well rounded, in some clubs, and I do a lot more than just weed. That’s besides that point but I’m here to tell all of you that if you have ever been caught in your dorm with weed your probably a dumb ass(unless someone narced) and how to avoid it. I’m posting this because my roommate in the other room of our quad pretty much hotboxed his room with a joint and ruined it for me. Luckily they didn’t find anything cause I’m smart but onto why I’m really here. It’s not hard guys just follow these pretty simple rules 

1. Always have door shut, window open, and blanket/sheet at bottom of your door. These 3 little things can save u so much trouble it’s crazy.

2. Smoke average amounts at a time and try your hardest to get smoke out of the window. Holding your smoke in lets you have more control of where it goes. 

3. ☠️THIS IS MY BIGGEST RULE!: DO NOT SMOKE BLUNTS OR JOINTS IN YOUR ROOM IF YOU ARE CONCERNED WITH GETTING CAUGHT!!!☠️. This seems to be a trend where I go, blunts especially are just stupid to smoke in your room. 

4. Have some kind of smell producing item on deck. This could be a candle, any kind of cologne or body spray, I myself make coffee or tea most of the time cause it smells up the room lol. Even baby powder to put on some kind of cloth material.

5. This is my second biggest rule and you’d be surprised how many people don’t follow it. Never ever leave your bud stuff out in the  open. Whether it be glass, actual weed, a grinder, or even a lighter. I’ve met so many people who have been caught for this reason and it’s so easy to follow.

I write these rules not to make anyone who has been caught to feel dumb but to prevent it. If you have any others to add feel free to comment ! I would appreciate anything I didn’t cover.

Edit: Febreeze + Toilet roll w/ dryer sheet. These are great especially for people that can’t hold in there smoke for long",20,0,714.121474980676,college
What classes should you take if you wanna make anime?,,6,2,726.060687943639,college
So I'm confused if class average on a test is 63 did anyone get an A ?,Straight up the title is my question. How do class averages work ¿ Edit : I got a 62 but the professor is curving the grade so I'm going to come out with an 82. Apparently the average person comes out of this class with a fucking C. This is a stupid fuckin economics class how can that be ? I'm not getting a fucking C in a stupid fuckin economics class . Unfortunately there's only the final and three homework assignments other then this in the class. So what do I do now? Pull my dick out and get an A on the three homework assignments and the final and hope for the best ?,21,0,736.3101208140093,college
California boy looking for full rides (or something close),"So i'm in my senior year in high schools and im stressing out about college (like most seniors). My dream school WAS University of Michigan, until my parents talked to me how that would be super expensive as an out-of-state student from Cali. Even looking at colleges here in California, college just seems so damn expensive. I'm applying to schools like Berkeley, U of M, and Stanford still, but im interested in what colleges I would have a good shot at getting a full ride or at least most of my tuition paid for (or my chances of getting lots of aid at all). I'm in the top 5% of my class with a 4.44 weighted GPA with a 3.93 unweighted GPA. Ive gotten 4B's total my whole high school career and i dont plan on getting any more (hopefully). I'm a member of NHS, CSF (California Scholarship Federation), and my school's Link Crew. I'm a band nerd, having been in band since 7th grade and Wind Ensemble since Junior year (also doing marching band and being a part of the Spring Musical). I've also been on the Varsity Tennis team as a freshman. Any help would be appreciated!!! (PS. I'm planning on majoring in Aerospace/Mechanical Engineering and i would like to go to school in the West Coast-ish, North West, or Midwest)",3,0,739.8102365547502,college
Im not getting into an ivy league school am i?,"Im 17 years old. A junior in highschool. And its my dream to get into an ivy league college. But i have had from bad to okay grades all throughout highschool i have as bs and cs currently. I guess i have done ok in a bunch of my important tests. Do i even have a smidge of a chance to get in? Harvard isnt necesarrily my choice but just going off of harvard THEY HAVE A 6% ACCEPTANCE RATE. I am doubting that i could ever do it but im just making sure. Do i even have a chance? (P.s. i have found that watching the broadway play ""Heathers"" really doesnt help with me getting over my sittuation.",24,1,745.8409657214169,college
"If Nicolas Cage became a professor, what classes do you think he'd most likely be teaching?",,3,0,755.266625443639,college
Minimizing the risk of sexual assault,"I move in at my college in 17 days and the thing I'm most nervous about/scared of is that whole sexual assault thing. So, do any of you have any advice on how to manage that fear and/or lower that risk? What are some things to do in order to stay safe?",14,0,795.0931995177131,college
Taking 2 weeks off of school: bad idea or no?,"I really don't want to go back to school this semester. I want to take a semester off to travel with my friends and explore life outside of the routine work and school because even in the summer I constantly work. The two weeks is because I had planned on going to burning man (yes the actual event is only about a week but I will  actually be working it and making a generous amount of money) 

I'll only be taking intermediate Spanish, math, and bio 2. The only class I worry about falling behind on is math because I catch on to Spanish easily and I will be retaking bio 2 (I did really well in that class until about the 2 month mark due to outside circumstances). 

It just really sucks because I don't think I can convince my dad to let me take off an entire semester to the point where he will believe me and the fact that I'm not just going to drop out of school altogether and this would be taking place the start of the second week of school. Like if it was the first week? No problem it's syllabus week but the second and third I don't know. 

Any suggestions? Thanks! 

Tl dr title also how do you guys feel about taking a semester off in general ",9,0,866.0533152584538,college
"In your guys opinion, what's the most useful and useless college degree? Why?",Do not want to start an argument by any means. Just want to get an idea of what people think. Thank you all! ,13,0,903.8960698880834,college
Can you guys comment on my Safety and Match Schools,"Hey everyone
I'm new here and am relatively unfamiliar with the criteria needed for a Safety and Match School. 

I'm a Chinese, Male, Junior currently attending Northville High School in Michigan... I want to work in finance when I'm older, so I am looking to attend either a highly ranked business school or a top school with a strong economics program. My Stats are:

35 ACT (12 writing)
3.93 Weighted GPA (Should go up to a 4.03 or so after this semester)
3.73 UW GPA... Side Note: My GPA is relatively low because of my bad freshman year. I received two 3.5's; my sophomore year I got a 4.1 and a 4.0, and my Junior year so far I got a 4.5. To emphasize this, my UC GPA (Capped) is a 4.23
My extracurriculars include working two jobs, as well as founding a club, and participating in varsity tennis for four years. I am also part of DECA, Science Olympiad, etc. and have over 150 hours of community service.

So here's my question. I am currently in the process of creating a college list, and am unsure of what to consider safeties and matches. Currently, my safeties are

Miami (OH) -- Farmer School of Business, and
Indiana Bloomington -- Kelley School of Business
I'm not sure if these should be considered safeties or matches??
My Matches:
UMICH (Pre-admit Ross),
UVA,
UNC, and
UCLA.
In my opinion, these all seem like high matches or maybe even reaches, so I was wondering if anyone has any recommendations for match/safety schools with my credentials?
Much appreciated",8,0,923.1805143325279,college
Math professor is making little political jabs during lectures. Should I warn him that it could be risky?,"My mathematics professor has very liberal political views, and will make ~2-3 jokes aimed at right wing politics and the right wing parties (both Australian and the US). I don't take any offence at it myself, and I don't know of any right-leaning students in the class (I don't know everyone though), but I'm worried that someone *might* take great offence at his comments and cause trouble for him. Given the polarizing nature of the recent elections and the odd 'complaint-happy' nature of some of the younger students this year in particular, it could backfire on him in ways that it never has before. 

I consider us to be on pretty friendly terms since he's the supervisor for my SO, and we semi-regularly attend dinners and events with him and his wife. So it isn't like I'm just a random undergrad telling him what to do. Even if someone did take offence, I doubt it would ever negatively impact his career, but it'd certainly waste his time and cause him stress/trouble. 

Should I casually bring up the issue with him, as friendly concern? I quite like the jokes, but they're not worth him getting burned over.",6,1,946.7081532214169,college
LPT: Save time. Use a text to speech app for e-books.,,3,0,984.3457342399354,college
Is a 3.72 a good g.p.a in college?,I'm at Florida Atlantic University for my freshman year and I ended my class with 3.72 g.p.a with 20 hours of credits.  ,15,0,1039.792389332528,college
[Serious] How important is it to have A's in college?,"I'm currently a senior in high school, and I am taking dual enrollment classes. I have a 4.0 and will graduate as a valedictorian. I just got my grade back from Composition 1010 and I have an 88.05%. This will go up to a high school A, but will remain a college B. I am seriously stressed to the point of being sick before over this, for I've never made a B before. Can someone explain the importance of GPA in college, especially when it comes to B's versus A's?",16,0,1094.2434657214167,college
Craziest Hazing Story,"I thought this would be an interesting thing to see.  Please post the craziest Hazing story you've heard, or even experienced!",7,0,1113.4205722028983,college
Just failed a quiz due to test anxiety.,"Good news and bad news. 

Good news is that I get three dropped quizzes, I knew the material for the most part, and studied a lot before I took it. 

Bad news: I failed it. Before the quiz, my heart was pounding, even though I studied all week and knew the material well. I started going too fast, then I started thinking I was going to run out of time, then panic ensued, and had to guess. 

This sucks, and I don't know how to deal with it. I have a test in a week, and I fear I will have this same anxiety. Thinking back on the quiz, I should have aced it. 

",5,0,1126.1599703510465,college
Is freedom of speech threatened on campus? What is your opinion?,"""Protests have erupted on university campuses across the country. To many, these students are speaking out against racial injustice that has long been manifested in unwelcoming, sometimes hostile environments. But to critics, their demands have gone too far, creating an atmosphere of intolerance for opposing or unpopular points of view. Are the protestors silencing free speech, or are they just trying to be heard? And are the universities responding by defending free speech, or by suppressing it?"" http://www.intelligencesquaredus.org/debates/free-speech-threatened-campus
",7,0,1130.871810628824,college
Colleges w/o the electives?,"Hey reddit, are there any colleges that don't force you to take useless, money-wasting electives?

Because I'd rather cut the BS, take my core, and leave...",3,0,1131.8551208140093,college
[Advice] Are you thinking about leaving education after high school to put it off till later? I suggest reconsidering after doing so myself.,"If you're in a financially stable position that would enable you to get college courses completed without working at the same time I highly suggest taking the harder science courses asap while pacing yourself. Many people are not given such a fine opportunity to focus.

There are 5 math courses (1 algebra, 1 trigonometry/precalculus, 3 calculus), 5 chemistry courses, 2 biology courses,3 computer courses, and 3 physics courses that are incredibly fundamentally relevant to understanding the natural world and society around you. Many of these courses must be taken in a linear manner and are prerequisites for each other, particularly the 5 chemistry & 5 math courses.

You do not want to take these courses all at once. I suggest taking 2 at a time so you can really focus on them and digest them and build solid notes that you can draw from later. Most people never take these courses and never develop a mature understanding of their environment. 

This may very well take 3 to 5 years for the average person who hasn't gotten a head start on these courses in high school.

Be picky about your teachers. Their abilities and perspectives mean everything to developing insight and appreciation for the material, which is incredibly important. Be prepared to fight for a perfect GPA (4.0) if you want to maximize financial and lifestyle choices in your future. If you appreciate being able to choose for yourself, always shoot high in case you fall lower. 

You may very well fail some of these courses the first round and need to take them again. Be careful of class drop dates; care about your record. Counselors are often useless, yet you should still consider their advice every semester.

Remember, if you're taking easy courses in college, you're wasting your time, unless you're getting ready to take these harder courses and want to ease in, which is what I needed to do after the high school factory environment. 

College is building a foundation for the rest of your life. Do not let this period be unfruitful. Spend time thinking about practical positions you would enjoy fulfilling in the private sector. 

You have the chance to be both actually and financially independent if you make the right decisions now. 

If you have troubles living with your family, I understand how you might want to leave immediately. There is often significant financial aid available via your FAFSA (federal financial aid) that may pay several thousand a year in cash. Consider vandwelling while living off this sum and you may wind up with a very, very nice van. (/r/vandwellers). You are limited to the amount of courses you may be paid for via the FAFSA. **Courses that you take *without receiving financial* aid count against your FAFSA course unit maximum.**

Please feel free to send me private messages or ask questions below.",13,0,1137.1900166473426,college
What to expect at a frat party?,"So I'm a sophomore female and I only went to 2 parties last year (never drank). I just felt a lot of guilt about drinking because I was brought up in a very conservative family.

Anyway, I'm a sophomore now and I want to try it. 3 of my friends are going out this Friday to a frat party and I want to go with them. I obviously don't want to get drunk. All 3 of my friends drink very responsibly and don't get more than tipsy usually. I am just worried about what the party is going to be like. One of my friends was telling me how she was making out with a random guy. I honestly don't want to make out or hook up with any guys I meet at the frat party. Also, I have no idea what amount of alcohol is okay for me to consume before I start doing stupid shit (like texting people I shouldn't be texting, blabbering out secrets, etc). 

I know this post sounds super naive; it's just that I haven't really been exposed to this side of college before. ",7,1,1150.0331184991946,college
"In college, how often do you get action?","Like, ya know, action. And how easy is it to get this?",8,0,1159.0870652584538,college
Should I take a year off to feel more in control with my own life?,"Hey guys, I feel very conflicted right now as I don't feel certain about going to university this September anymore. 

I initially planned to take out an educational loan to go to a UK university to get my engineering degree. Although the interest rate is only 3% per year, I need $120,000 to cover everything from food to tuition fees. There's a possibility of it turning into a full ride scholarship if I get good results. However, what if I can't cope in such a different environment? What if I don't like the uni I'm attending? And what with Brexit and them trying to decrease immigration, I feel like I'm throwing my non-existent money away before I get to even keep it.

The thought of taking a year off and using that time to get a driving licence plus a job seems so much more attractive now. I just don't feel ready to fly to the UK and start university yet. It feels so rushed and impulsive. It's like I'm just going along with my friends' decision and not my own. And I don't feel in control at all.

I want to gain more experience as a fresh 18 year old and then from there, do some more research about universities and scholarships. Then only can I make a decision I'm satisfied with.

In short, I just feel very overwhelmed and could use some advice. Am I overthinking this or are my fears justified? ",14,1,1183.487840721417,college
Accidentally retook a class!,"So it turns out I'm retaking a class this summer that I already took in spring. I could've sworn I signed up for the correct class, but clearly something went wrong. Money and time wasted.

It ends August 1st and I'm not sure if I should stay or drop, and the last day to do is this sunday the 17th. Pretty sure I'm going get a B just like last time, so for now there's no real reason to stay unless I can improve (84/100 right now).

Has anyone encountered this problem before?",8,0,1191.1384194251204,college
GPA?,"Is it mathematically possible to get my GPA from a 3.61 with a total of 48 credit hours completed, so a sophomore, I guess, to a 3.8-3.9 GPA by my senior year?",2,0,1204.1112550732687,college
Has anybody here moved to a new state after graduation?,"Sorry if this sounds like a generic question, but it's hard to find anything in the search. I live in Maryland, and want to move to Arizona after I graduate (for political reasons). I am going into my sophomore year, but honestly cannot wait to get out of here. Has anybody done this, and have you had any issues with finances, relationships, etc.? Should I work a few years here before moving, or is it best that I apply to a shitload of places in Arizona my senior year and move there as soon as I get an offer? 

I think I want to be an actuary, for reference.",15,1,1211.877562943639,college
Grades.,So my major is CNT.. I just finished a semester and got a D- in my accounting class. But that's still passing and I got the credits for it. Would I have to retake it? I don't think it's a major class towards my degree. Sorta confused still. ,6,1,1218.2140907214168,college
"Which schools should be my safeties, matches, and reaches?","I'm thinking about which schools to apply to and I'm kind of lost on which schools I should view as safeties, matches, and reaches. I have a 4.33 GPA (this is excluding Freshman year which was a joke, if anyone can let me know how important that will be please do) and have taken a college course in Astronomy which I got an A in. I'm also volunteering for the Gary Johnson campaign, speak French fluently, have played JV soccer and planning to play varsity next year, going to take another college course this year, probably going to get a job as well. I also am part of a political club called Young Democracy which is a form of student gov't where I was elected president. I read books on philosophy, psychology, and politics all the time although I don't know if that really counts as an EC. I also help out at my local mosque every Friday with handing out and preparing food for people. I tutor my young siblings with their schoolwork as well. I also watch a lot of Youtube videos on politics to deepen my understanding as well as documentaries (you can see I'm scraping the bottom of the barrell here for ECs.) I haven't taken the SAT or ACT yet, but I've begun studying and will probably do really well. I live in Cali, so I'm thinking of applying to schools like UCLA, UCB, and UCSD as my matches, schools like UCSC, Cal Poly, University of Michigan as my safeties, and schools like Stanford, Brown, Cornell, and University of Chicago as my reaches. However, I don't know if this is accurate, so I'd like some recommendations of what schools would fit me in each category. Thanks. Edit: demographics by the way are Male and Moroccan (idk which ethnicity this falls under, kind of ambiguous), lower middle class, Muslim I also play guitar in my spare time, I would also be the first in my family to attend an American university, intended major of psychology
",7,1,1226.3234657214168,college
"If a class is only 50 minutes, is that how much time ill have for tests?","I wanna sign up for engineering dynamics at UCF and its listed that the class is Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 9:30am-10:20am

Just finishing up from a state college, so not sure how universities entirely work, will I only have 50 minutes to take tests??",6,0,1228.733512017713,college
So I was just notified of my academic dismissal... please help,"Today I received notice of my dismissal.  I just finished my junior year of college.  I did the first 3 semesters at a community college and transferred to a campus of my state university.  My transfer Gpa was 3.6 or so, all As and Bs, and I made the deans list my 2nd and 3rd semesters there.  My first semester at university I maintained that Gpa, and even made the deans list.

This fall semester I had a poor term gpa, of 1.7.  I ended with an A (.5 credit), a B (3 credits), a C (3 credits), a C (4 credits), an F (3 credits) and an F (.5 credits), the last of which was because I didn't realize I had accidentally registered for the 2nd part of a 2 part PE course until after the deadline for a W.  I was not put under any probation (my cum. Gpa was still above 2.0), and was presumably under good standing at this point.

This last semester I took 15 credits (5 classes) and received an F in every one, with a term gpa of 0 which dropped my cum. Gpa to 1.766, under the 2.0 limit for dismissal.

The reason for this was twofold.  First, anxiety/depression.  Basically, my life-plan was to get an education degree and become a teacher.  During our 60 hour field experience this semester (my first semester taking education classes), it slowly became clear to me that teaching was not a good fit for me.  I began having anxiety about going to the field days, so I didn't go.  That gave me anxiety about going to another class that had the same professor.  Then anxiety for my 3rd education class because it was with the same students in all 3 classes.  Around this time my anxiety started fueling depression, which brought back insomnia related sleeping issues, which led to not sleeping for 48 hours, then crashing during the day and being unable to go to my other 2 classes.  Basically from late March to mid may, I didn't go to a single class.

I don't have insurance and I can't afford a psychiatrist or dr to help prescribe anything.  However I did not use our schools free clinic either, which does offer counseling.  The last time I had this same issue was my senior year of high school - I had too many truancies so they forced me to graduate a quarter early.  I may have some documentation for seeing a dr for this reason at this time.

Basically, what I would *like* to do is change my major from History Ed. to History.  I would like to appeal (appeals are due early june, I'm not sure if an in person appeal is an option) and return to university this fall.  I need to take a course this summer anyway (**which would replace one of my Fs.  The other F I have to replace I was going to take next fall semester**) but would be unable to afford more than 1, though I could possibly afford 2 if I put them on my credit card.  What do you think my chances are?  What strategy should I use for my appeal?

One thing that is frustrating to me is that my cum. Gpa apparently doesn't include my transferred classes, even though I know they transferred in as grades (A/B etc) not just pass/fail.  **My current combined Gpa (as shown on my official university Advisement Report) is 2.642, well above the minimum.**

It is possible that I could obtain some sort of letters of recommendation if that would help.  My academic advisor and I talked about these anxiety/sleep issues in the fall semester while I had a class with him, though of course it wasn't as severe as this past semester.  It's also possible I could get a letter from my high school principal, whom I convinced to let me walk at graduation a few weeks after graduating early, explaining to her my anxiety/sleep situation.  Several high school teachers as well, and perhaps another college professor or 2.

So basically I'm feeling mostly numb right now.  It's 230am and I can't sleep, and I'm trying to keep away an anxiety attack.  Please tell me what I should do.",3,0,1245.6586393325279,college
Computer Science major & Sophomore with a 2.5 GPA after this Spring semester. What do I do now?,"This year has been shit. Freshman year at university, I was on top of my classes and ended the year with a 3.7. A 3 point fucking 7. I felt like I was on top of the world and nothing could stop me. Come my sophomore year, drama with relationships ending in a very messy breakup, and a decomposing work ethic that only got worse after all the dust settled from breaking things off, I've finished my sophomore year with a 2.7 & 1.5 both semesters, and having to retake Calculus and General Engineering 165 ( a computer programming course) come next year at the start of my Junior year. Words can't describe how fucking shitty I feel right now for not buckling down with my studies, and allowing my breakup to affect me to the degree it did. I wasn't doing my work, I didn't go to classes a majority of the time, it wasn't pretty. 

As the title says, I want to major in Computer Science, and while I'm already behind as far as math goes since I wasn't too good at it in high school, I need advice guys. Is it possible to bring my GPA back up to at LEAST a 3.0 before graduation? This detrimental obliteration to my GPA from a 3.7 to a 2.5 in a single year...it's extremely eye opening, but I want to know if I've already ruined my career life or if there is still a chance, and what steps I need to take in order to get back on the ball. Please help",1,0,1248.2038129436392,college
Don't know what to do. Might want to end it all.,"In summary, I am a 5th year senior at a private college in Atlanta on no scholarship, pure loans and financial aid. This semester, I took 18 hours and 2 math courses. Finite Math and College Algebra. I've failed College Algebra 3 times before taking this and I need a D in Finite Math to pass and the prof just emailed me saying I made a D-. I have little to no money for summer school and my school does not accept cc credits. My school will let me walk, for commencement but of course I will not get the degree until the class is completed. Post school I have no plans. I wanted to get into an Uncommon Teaching position but my gpa is too low. Wanted to join in the Airforce or Navy as an officer but my gpa is too low. I would be graduating with a degree in English. I know the job market does not offer a lot of jobs for the degree. In addition to this, I had a fight with my roommates twice over the semester, so now I am staying by my aunts 40 min away from campus with no car (having to uber $35-40) back and forth to school because I have no car -this is until the graduation ceremonies etc. Right now I am just really stressing and everyone keeps telling me to pray and ask God I don't know what to do honestly.",3,1,1260.802065258454,college
"I have been a terrible student at my community college in my Intro to Archaeology class by rising 6 classes in the last 3 weeks, and on top of that I have missed more than the 50% of the semester so far. Now I want to go to class tonight but fee like I don't deserve it or I'll just look rude to prof","I have made extremely high grades on all my work turned in. I have missed maybe 4-5 quizzes worth 1% of 100% of my grade each. But I am engaged and great student when there, however due to personal issues and the lateness of the class (starts at 7:30pm MW) I am unable to make it. I want to go and finish the semester as best I can but feel like ive been a jerk by not showing up at all for so long. The professor says in the syllabus he won't drop you and doesn't count attendees. So I have been using that approach. I don't think a professor would have that in his syllabus and then change his mind about dropping me, so I feel safe. 

MY QUESTION is: Do I just shrug this off and continue like normal or is there some damage control I should be doing. I am reading and taking notes on chapters now and writing a paper on the subject. So I am active and ready to be the best student. Thanks reddit",2,0,1277.178512017713,college
Awww f*ck,What do you do when you're a semester away from graduating and no longer like your major?,5,1,1282.8621347028984,college
What should I do in grad school?,"I want to be a therapist /psychologist or psychiatrist who works specifically with LGBT people suffering from gender and sexuality issues. I'd also like the option to teach gender and sexuality at the college level .

Right now I'm looking into psych NP which has great Salary but little psycothrapy is done and I won't be able to teach college level. I really don't want to do a Phd as the time it takes and the return is bad.

What other options do I have ?",4,0,1316.3865791473427,college
Got a 0 for not meeting word count,"Had an assignment which required a post of 500 words based on a reading question. Only had about 420, but professor said that less than 500 words would result in an automatic zero. Despite this, my post answered every question and incorporated content from outside sources, going above an beyond. Should I be at fault for caring about quality over quantity?",12,0,1332.8058268325278,college
How is Greek life at your school?,"Basically, I am a non-Greek freshman. A frat hasn't really been something I've been interested in, as before I went to college, I'd never met people who were in frats/sororities and enjoyed it. 

However, I am a very social person, and it does have some appealing aspects. 

Despite its appeal, I definitely see/hear a lot of systemic problems with my school's Greek life that are honestly just too much with me. 

Literally every frat at my school hazes in some way or another. For example, a person I knew was rushing an engineering frat and didn't  respond to emails quickly, and was then given research subjects and told to write papers on them as well as present them to one of the frat members. 

Most of what I hear out of normal frats is grueling physical exercises/punishment as well as humiliating stuff. Somebody yesterday who is a senior was telling me about the frat that he had been a part of(left 2nd year BC financial reasons) where they were forced to go outside and run a mile, then go inside and do a lot of sets of push-ups/sit-ups/whatever else until they finished. They were also forced to drink a handle/and strip down to their under and got kicked into a pool. 

And this was a frat that advertises their no-hazing policy. 

Also, misogyny is apparently an issue. It's an achievement to have slept with a girl from every Panhellenic frat, and even more so if you did it while having a girlfriend. 

Not everyone is bad, but there are a large population of bad people in the frats at my school 

Is anyone else's Greek life similar or different? ",2,0,1375.1561393325278,college
Double major or two degrees?,"I have the option of doing either two majors with one degree, or two degrees (a BSW and a BA).  

Is one better, professionally?  Is having something else to hang on the wall preferable? ",3,0,1376.363836091787,college
You will not need to buy the textbook for most classes.,"Many professors will have powerpoint presentations which basically summarize the textbook. I've had professor say that ""you'll fail if you don't read the textbook,"" only for all the information from the textbook to be summarized in the powerpoint. I've even had classes where even though the syllabus said the textbook was required, the professor never even used it. Last semester I paid over $400 for all the textbooks, but never used any of them. This also includes when the syllabus says to read each chapter by a certain date. At my college, you can download the powerpoint presentations to your computer for free, so there's literally no reason to get the textbook.

TL;DR Most professors will cover everything in the lecture, so there's no reason to get the textbook. The only reason to get a textbook is if the information is not being covered in the lecture.",13,0,1386.7973430362317,college
"Feel like I failed a Class, believe the grading scheme was way to stupid, should I talk to dean?","Hey guys, I took my last CS class this semester and had a 94 throughout the entire semester. The teacher was a recently hired, first time teaching, and just freshly out of obtaining her PHD.

The Projects, class homework, and midterm were great. I scored enough to help me obtain that score. The final though, was worth 40% of the grade. I feel as the grading school was beyond stupid. Should I try to talk to the dean? I'm not the first person to complain about this class.

Grading scheme was as follow


Project:15 percent. 4 projects-Create 4 databases one to track.


Homework:15 percent: 8 homework assignments


Midterm:30 percent-1 midterm


Final: 40 percent



Literally the entire semester relied on our exams. It's as the teacher never noticed her workload and the class was beyond ridiculous. We had to base each project based on the suggestion of the previous project. YET! We finished all the projects, and the teacher/TA still haven't finished grading project 2, 3 and 4. 



I feel I was unprepared for the final. We had no feedback on homework, and on projects. The teacher and TA weren't the most helpful when going to their office hours when we asked questions. There was an obvious language barrier. ",11,0,1404.931000443639,college
"Can you do foreign exchange for three out of the four years? I was thinking Cambridge, Stanford, Oxford, and Harvard",can you?,8,0,1418.048176369565,college
What to do when college classes aren't giving you ENOUGH work?,"I know, I know, people are going to hate me.  But here's the deal: I can get away with maybe spending an hour or two a day on classwork, and that's including things like working on a paper that isn't due until next Monday.  I'm a sophomore taking a full course load (4 courses), I'm in a music ensemble, and I have two on-campus jobs (though they both allow me to basically just sit and get paid to do homework).  This hasn't been my experience in past semesters, but right now, I'm feeling weirdly stressed about my lack of stress.  Maybe my classes just aren't challenging enough, and I'm having an easy semester...but I feel the need to do MORE.

Any advice?",14,0,1437.9346925732686,college
Least preppy college in Ohio?,"I go to Miami University and I knew it was ""preppy"" but I didn't think that actually meant anything.

However, I find that I really can't stand most of the people around me, with the exception being my close friends.  I don't care about frats, partying, or anything of that sort, even though it's a big part of this school.

Anyway, I am considering University of Cincinnati, but I don't know if that will be any better.  What are some non-preppy colleges in Ohio (or out-of-state with same yearly cost as Miami) that have a good Computer Science program?",4,0,1482.083176369565,college
Vanderbilt Women's Center to Lecture Men on 'Healthy Masculinities',,0,2,1505.1827597028982,college
Good places for hiding alcohol in dorm rooms?,,6,0,1505.2638708140094,college
Does everyone come to college with a boyfriend/girlfriend ?,I'm going to YHC and everyone I've talked to is in a relationship it's the 3rd week of school. It's like I can't talk to any of the guys because more then half have a SO. What to do ? Is there anything ?,8,0,1506.0217990547503,college
"Can an international student receive credits at US college for advanced course work during high school (e.g. AP, IB)?",,1,0,1526.1920768325278,college
Preparing for Collage as a Lazy Person in General?,I'm a really lazy person so I KNOW I should step up my game and be ready for what college for me. What should I do? I'm thinking I should get a job to fill up a little bit of my schedule and gain some responsibility. What to you think?,17,1,1544.9904101658612,college
How the hell do you land a $500+ a week job while in college???,"This is beginning to frustrate me. I'm a community college student (21) who is part time and a part time worker. I have been working a minimum wage job for the past two years I've been searching like effing crazy for another job because my current one is now getting annoying and I obviously just hate it there now but it seems even the places with ""Now hiring"" signs aren't hiring.

Meanwhile I go on fb and there is this one person who I went to high school with posting a few pictures of her check and she gets 1,100-1,500 bucks A WEEK...AND SHE HASN'T GRADUATED YET! I cannot for the life of me comprehend how someone can have a job that makes tht amount while being a college student. I cannot think what job can offer that much green. I am literally frustrated and borderline depressed because I am trying to better myself financially and academically but I cannot land a job that can give me at least half of that no matter where I go and look, even the places that are ""Now Hiring"" aren't freaking hiring.",12,2,1551.9754796103057,college
The Secret Quotas in College Admissions,,1,0,1576.2464402584537,college
is pathbrite legit?,"It appears they got my email through cengage. I didn't really like their email subject of ""Stop Watching Netflix and Use This to Get Hired"".... looks like click bait and honestly a little offensive (maybe i'm being a overly sensitive). I don't know why but i'm hesitant to try it. something just seems off about it. ",5,0,1582.1215907214169,college
Missed my college enrollment deadline. Now what?,"Are there any tips or tricks I can employ? Like, what should I say if I want to plead my case? I'm desperate here and I want to finish my schooling ASAP. Thank you guys!",3,1,1620.691451832528,college
Ivy League or Not?,"I am currently a junior in high school, and I'm trying to decide what college to go to. I plan to major in electrical engineering, but I am unsure what colleges would be best for me. Specifically, I have a few questions about Ivy League schools. 

First off, do Ivy Leagues pay as much attention to undergrad students as other schools do? Or do Ivy Leagues not care as much about their undergraduate students?


Second, what is it like going to an Ivy League as a poor kid? I come from a poor background, but I may get enough scholarships to afford an Ivy League comfortably. However, I realize that the majority of children who go to Ivy Leagues come from upper-class families. So, what is it like going to an Ivy League as a poor kid? Are you alienated? Can you afford all the luxuries they have there?

I appreciate any help. Two of the Ivy Leagues I am looking at specifically are Columbia and Cornell, in case that helps. Thank you.

**tl;dr- Do Ivy Leagues care about undergraduate students? And what is it like being the poor kid in an Ivy League?**",8,1,1657.145363869565,college
"Highschool Freshman, wanting to prepare early.","Hi! I am a freshman in highschool at the moment. We do trimesters here, and my first two weren't that great. (1 A, 1 C, and 3 high Bs.) I'm working SUPER hard this last trimester to bring all of those grades up. My main goal is MiT, (I'm shooting a bit high with my goals, I know) since I love programming. (I can code well in HTML/CSS, Java, C#, Python, Bash, and currently doing development in Linux and Unity) I've always been pretty well-rounded outside of just schoolwork, doing Boy Scouts, Tennis (Captain of JV, Varsity for me next year) and community service, also planning to start a computer science program at my school for 4-8th graders next year. I want to major in Computer Science/IT (doing internships for IT over the summer) I've always not been that interested in math (strange for a programmer) but am going to take a math course over every summer so I'll do 2 years of math per every school session. What I'm mainly asking is what else I should do besides getting really good grades. (If this is the wrong sub, feel free to remove it)",19,0,1658.1164981288243,college
Do I still have to pay for my CC classes if I drop out?,"I don't really want to pay for the classes since since I'm not going to be attending anymore, so does it just stay as a fee I have to pay if I were to register sometime again in the future?

",4,0,1673.4105837769723,college
"Homeschooled, know nothing of college. Few questions, mainly about credits.","so, i'm a student who was homeschooled for the majority of my highschool career-- got my GED with honors as a homeschooler due to my parents disapproving of the school system's teaching methods. my parents have not taught/told me anything about how college technically works, per se, and seem to really just be trying to tell me what to do without me knowing much.

i've been thinking that i want to go to a community college for my general education classes, but i'm not entirely sure how to go about that. do i just apply for said community college and just take the core classes they have listed as the core curriculum? assuming the university i am planning on going to accepts transfer credits (which they do, i believe).

also, how do credit hours work? for example, is the only difference between a 3 credit class and a 5 credit class the amount of time you spend in said class per week you attend? for how long do you attend a specific class? i know that, at least for my state, you need 42 core curriculum hours/general education hours. how long would completing all those take? i'm super confused about credit hours/semester hours/college hours in general, eheh. 


",5,2,1781.7958615547502,college
CIS vs CS degrees?,I'm still a freshman so I have time to choose but I don't know which to go for. CS is obviously more highly regarded. But if I go CIS I can get an entrepreneurship minor. What are your thought? UofL Cards represent.,7,0,1801.0320421103058,college
"What is the best major to go for, overall?","What major do you think is the best overall if you go to uni in the U.S and want to stay in the U.S after graduation?
I mean ""best"" as in good job prospects, income.. Just curious.",9,0,1810.0217527584539,college
Improving chances in college applications over a gap year.,"So I fucked up a bit. I applied to 8 schools, only one of which was a safety school (BU, which is also known for accepting / rejecting people kind of weirdly). I was waitlisted by 3 of them and rejected by the rest. I know that despite my best efforts chances that I'll get into the remaining schools through waitlists are very slim. So I am considering taking a gap year and reapplying to some of the schools while applying to a few more, safer options.

Is it possible / allowed for me to reapply to a school after being rejected? (Googling would suggest that I can, but I want to be sure)

 In the gap year I plan to build my profile a bit  and would like some advice on how I could do that. Currently, all I can think of are the follwing:

* Writing better essays (My last ones weren't great)
* Improving my SATs
* Doing an Internship

What else could I do?

I am also currently writing / coding a text-based adventure game (would submitting this in my profile help my chances if it is good?). Could learning a language possibly help? (It's something I'm doing anyway, just curious about whether it would mean anything for my college applications).

Thanks for any help guys!

**tl;dr Didn't get into any colleges, what can I do in a gap year to help my chances when I apply again next year?**

EDIT: Forgot to mention that CC isn't really an option for me. I might go to a local uni at the start of next year, but I still need to fill the 8 months until then!",7,0,2029.1528522954907,college
How can I meet smart friends in my first year of college?,"I may be going to a party school (think Big 10 type). Partying will be the dominate culture.

I'm a guy, and I'd like to meet smart guys and girls while in college. Maybe someone I could start a business with.

Thanks ",13,1,2031.4848893325277,college
Has anyone else experienced immense amounts of drama since they got to college?,"Has anyone else experienced immense amounts of drama since they got to college?

I've experienced drama here and there in high school and prior to that. But seriously, what the actual fuck? Ever since I got to college from day 1 the drama has been non stop and just continuously gets worse. And just when things are getting quiet, BAM! Someone throws another ball at you. 

Then all the people you were friends with at the beginning, at the end of the semester you all literally despise each other and want nothing to do with each other. So you try to avoid those people but they just don't let things go or leave you alone. Hell, it's hard for me to let certain things go but I don't go out of my way to cause drama just for the fact that I'm still angry.

So I'm wondering, is it just me and my circle of friends or do any other college students experience the same bullshit? Because it's seriously the most ridiculous thing I've ever experienced. And so petty. What scares me most is how I know it only gets worse from here on out.

So what are your experiences?",7,0,2038.0497504436391,college
Is going to college worth it?,"Hello r/college! I need some help. I've only participated in one year of college, and didn't do well at it because I was never really taught anything about college life in my private high school (also I was pretty lazy, let that be known). I'm 19 now, and work part-time at UPS night. The next step is to get back INTO college, because I had to take a leave of absence due to not having the funds to attend.

But this is where the problems show up. The only way i can attend college is if I take out a loan or get financial aid. But I don't want to get trapped into a loan/ aid forever and ruin my life. In this day an age, with my INCREDIBLY low income and no clue what I really want a career in, is it really worth going to college?",16,0,2045.869912480676,college
Well Then,"Well than just about finisher my first semester aaaaaand I definitely failed miserably.... county college and still failed, paid for my first semester in cash and failed, great. My life's a wreck and I can't get it together going to have to live by myself next year and now I have to lie to my family about my grades.  Either that or I'll just be made a laughing stock and told ""I told you so"".  ADD helped me not get my shit done, giving up mid way through studying didn't help either. Working a part time job and just blaming everyone and everything else didn't solve anything either.  No friends, no money, no fuckin problem... still love how real applied life is way easier than college and school in general.",1,0,2127.2971347028983,college
Chances of going to University of Washington?,"I am currently a senior in high school, and recently began sending off applications off to my choices of colleges. All throughout high school, I have had a strong desire to go to the University of Washington Seattle campus.

---

But, the beginning of my junior year brought a massive list of obstacles that, in my opinion, have probably drastically lowered my chances of being accepted. My family faced a sudden economic challenge, with my dad losing his job, and our relationships suffered drastically as a result. I got a job, working a lot of hours, right after school, every day to try and support myself. I didn't go home much to avoid arguments, and as a result, didn't get an adequate amount of sleep most nights, skipped a lot of meals, and lost a lot of opportunities to work on school-related work.

---

This caused my otherwise ~3.75 cumulative GPA to plummet to the 3.0 range. It wasn't until the end of my junior year that things finally began to pick back up, but there wasn't enough time to fix the damage that had already been done. 

---

This year, in comparison, has been completely smooth sailing, and I have managed to hold a solid 3.85 (which has the possibility of becoming a 4.0) in the current semester.

---

In terms of my academics and extra-curriculars, I think I am otherwise well-off. I have over 300 hours of community service. I competed in a national competition known as SkillsUSA in the summer, and placed fifth in the nation for computer maintenance. I am the President of my school's SkillsUSA chapter, and I serve on the ASB Executive board. I have ran track since freshman year, and have switched between football and cross-country since. I have taken 3 Honors classes, and 7 AP classes. I also recently took the SATs for the first time, and got a 2020.

The only possible thing that could possibly hurt me now is my GPA. As it stands now, it is right at 3.34 cumulative. For the University of Washington, this seems to be quite weak. I have been considering going to a few of my old teachers, whom I have quite close relationships with now, and asking for additional work to bring up previous failures, but have been struggling with the morality of this.

---

In conclusion, I was just looking for some possible advice, suggestions, and/or predictions for my chances of getting in.

I believe all of my essays are quite strong, and have also written the supplementary options, but I don't know how much that could help.

TL;DR
I have a 3.34 cumulative GPA, a 2020 SAT score, moderate athletics, strong extra-curriculars and community service, and decent essays. What should be my chances of getting in to the University of Washington at the moment, and what are some possible ways to increase said chances?",5,0,2154.460849980676,college
new to the sub. was wondering if i could get quick input on my chances of being accepted,"some stats:

GPA: unweighted:  3.4.  weighted:  4.0 (rutgers takes weighted according to the site)

class rank at end of junior year:  11 out of 121.  Was in ""Honor Guard,"" a school-wide association for the top 12 students of the junior class

scores:  ACT:  27 then 29.  

have history of some clubs:  key club, environmental club, youth alive club, national honor society senior year, italian honor society sophomore year

have over 100 hours of volunteer work done at my local hospital

ask for anything else if needed

colleges i'm applying to (all in-state NJ):

1. Rutgers

2. Montclair

3.  Seton Hall

4.  TCNJ

5.  NJIT",6,0,2177.9877944251207,college
Im 16 and dont know what I want to become or study when I go to college. Can someone give me some ideas? What should I try to become and why?,,16,0,2187.349576832528,college
What is the point in applying for several colleges?,"I'd like to know what the point in applying for several different colleges is. Every good college has application fees that can add up pretty fast. So why apply to more than just a couple, when you know you'll get into one of them?",11,0,2200.166023591787,college
I have a decision to make to set up my plans for college. This really has me upset and mildly depressed.,I'm sitting at an 89 overall but I am bringing it up as we speak. Im currently in the BOCES program audio media. (interactive classes that allow internships and active learning first hand) it's a breeze for me being that I have worked with these programs for 5+ years. I don't want to take this being that I feel like I am selling myself short for a college. The recording industry is coming to a slow halt. You either make it or not and I don't want to risk that. I want to be a business man working with stocks and what else. I'm really stuck and slowly becoming depressed. Any help is much appreciated.,1,0,2219.3180722028983,college
I REALLY need some help! (Doing this for my girlfriend),"Hi guys and gals,

Well – my girlfriend is in need of some help. She has an assignment due my midnight tonight and her book has yet to arrive from Amazon. In order to look like a hero, I told her I'd take care of it. On my lunch break today I went to Barnes and Noble and the schools book store and they were completely sold out. I would try to torrent the book for her temporarily (while we wait for hers to come in the mail) but I am at work and can't do it on my work computer (and won't be home until 3 hours before her assignment is due). Can anyone here PLEASE help me and download (torrent) the book for me and post it here or direct me to where I may be able to download the PDF quickly? It's sincerely appreciated!

The book:
""Medical Terminology"" 
Author: Susan Turley
ISBN: 0130940097 

Thanks so much!",11,9,2227.1979911843796,college
College Answerz,"Hey guys! This is my first time on Reddit, but I've been told that it's a dependable community.  Anyway, I've been working on this website (http://www.collegeanswerz.com/) basically for the past year, and I'm launching today!  The idea is that when sites like Princeton Review ask kids to fill out reviews for schools, the questions they ask of the reviewers are too general.  Thus, there are things about college that go unsaid.  Things that college applicants really want to know.  I think my site has more comprehensive questions that do a better job of prompting reviewers to talk about everything you'd want to know as a college applicant!

However, the tipping point I have to overcome is getting answers.  People always tell me that it's a great idea, but that it'll be too hard to get enough answers.  I disagree.  I think the questions I came up with are thought provoking, and that answering questions will be fun!  Anyway, my site is nothing without answers, and I'm not exactly sure how I'm going to promote it and get answers.  If you could answer questions for your school, and maybe get some of your friends to also, that'd really really be great!  Also, I'd love to hear what you think of the site, the concept, what it's missing etc.
",5,0,2279.2042064621573,college
I made a 21 on my ACT and a 1400 on my SAT. What options do I have for college?,"I want to get a Computer Science degree. My dream school is University of Georgia. I currently live in Tennessee, and I don't mind moving out of state. ",15,0,2377.2065212769726,college
The one book that saved my college years from oblivion,[It has never let me down](http://www.scribd.com/doc/34551310/The-Principles-of-Social-Competence),2,0,2902.7684309991946,college
Quit college (going online) - job life is better than all my peers. Don't be afraid to take risks.,,24,0,28.857840721416803,college
"PSA: Many of your professors are making <$5,000 for the entire course.","If your professors are adjuncts (often adjunct instructors or lecturers, not even really professors), they are almost certainly making less than $5k for that course, and will likely have a second or third job.

At a reputable 4 year university, the norm will be $3-4k per 3-credit hour course.

For community colleges or online courses, you can expect the number to be closer to $2k, though it's often quite a bit less than that.

Just something to keep in mind when you're trying to understand why your professors are so awful at times. You don't get what you pay for, you get what the university pays for.",46,8,315.2867180362316,college
Want to Be Stinking Rich? Major in Economics.,,17,6,1842.3125166473428,college
"Not against it, but why is everyone so obsessed with drinking/doing drugs?","Honestly I know this is going to make me seem like I'm antisocial and fun-hating, but I'm honestly wondering why. I'm not against drinking at parties per say, but when drinking becomes a typical college student's ideal weekend, I just simply can't agree. Personally,  I find a fireside chat with friends while passing around a guitar or playing fifa with a group of buddies to be a lot more entertaining than getting shit-faced. I haven't gotten drunk before, but people tell me it's like you forget all your problems and hardly remember anything the next day. 10 years down the road, when I look back at my college experience, I want to remember the good times I had, the bonds I formed, and the discussions and laughs I enjoyed. I've just always seen drinking as an escape from reality, and personally if I'm not satisfied with my reality I will work my ass off to change it, not temporarily escape it.  

Sorry if I offended anyone, this is just my opinion and if you like drinking with friends at parties, I won't judge.",18,9,1260.8779217399353,college
Should i film myself handing in projects?,"I've had numerous friends tell horror stories where the prof lost their projects and gave them a 0 and they had to have huge meetings with higher ups or even tried to take legal action.
Is there any legal ramifications in filming myself handing it in? or having a friend film me hand it in to the prof?",46,6,1963.0260814621577,college
I am so confused with most college students / people mentality behind college.,"I have been working full time since I was 18 years old I never had the privilege to just go to school full time and not work full time to pay for my education. Because of this my GPA will never meet that 3.5+ it might one semester, but overall my GPA will never have a 3.5 or higher and I accept that.

At the same time I have taken 12 hours a semester of school and I take 9 credit hours of classes in the summer so I am on the right track to graduate on time.

I read people all the time that say omg my GPA is below 3.5 what am I going to do and they freak out. I just don't understand this at all it confuses me to no end. A degree is a degree you work your ass off. You know what you are doing if you go into an interview and know what you are talking about. Yes a GPA will matter, but in the end of the day once you get your degree if you have the work ethic in a company to back yourself even with a lower 2.7+ GPA I am sure you will be fine as long as you are willing to prove yourself.",27,4,2308.7581184991946,college
"How to break the news of a ""low"" grade to my parents?","So my parents are paying for my undergrad. All of it. I'm taking no loans and graduating with no debt. I'm super grateful and thankful about that. Currently, I am studying computer graphics with an emphasis on front-end development and minoring in computer science. 

&#x200B;

I'm currently in my freshman year. 

&#x200B;

My parents *think* I have all As. However,that is not entirely true.

&#x200B;

I am taking 16 credit hours total.

&#x200B;

My grades (right now) are as follows:

&#x200B;

ENGLISH Accelerated (3 credit hours) - A

&#x200B;

Introduction to Computer Graphics (5 credit hours) - A

&#x200B;

Technology (3 credit hours) - A+ \[This class is basically where we apply engineering and tech skills to solve real-world problems\]

&#x200B;

Calculus 2 (5 credit hours) - Either a C+ or B- depending on the curve

&#x200B;

What do I do? My parents have high expectations for me, especially since I am Asian. I'm out-of-state at this university so they're paying more than my friend who is in-state. 

&#x200B;

They told me that they would be there for me and support me even during failures, and that I should let them know as soon as a grade drops so that we can figure out a game plan for me to improve (tutoring, supplemental resources, etc)

&#x200B;

But I don't know what to do. Calculus 2 is notoriously hard at my university. My university subreddit constantly roasts that class. Around 25% of students fail the first time they take the class and then have to retake it. I don't want to be a part of that 25%.

&#x200B;

And while I do enjoy math, I just am not doing very well in the class. Even in high school, I regularly got Bs, Cs, and even an F once :O after my freshman year. 

&#x200B;

I know my parents will still love me and be there for me when I break the news of my math grade. But I just need the courage to tell them that I am not that straight A 4.0 student they think I am.

&#x200B;

If they thought I had all As and a B, and then that B went up to an A, it would be easy to tell them my grade improved and then make them proud. 

&#x200B;

But notifying them of a grade drop is going to be tough. I didn't tell them about a grade drop once in high school (I let them find out themselves), and when they found out, they got angry, worried, and disappointed. The day they found out was filled with trauma. 

&#x200B;

Since I'm out-of-state and they're back home, it won't be as bad this time, but I can only imagine the lecture I'd be getting through the phone. 

&#x200B;

I just don't know what to do. 

&#x200B;

We have a test on Tuesday and if I do extremely well to bump my grade up, I should be fine, but what if I don't? What if my grade remains a C/B?

&#x200B;

What should I do? I am scared.",7,5,371.8919495177131,college
This is why I love college...,,3,15,2090.911532851046,college
"moved into college res, already hating it","i have been living in my college res for the past 4 days and am finding myself already wanting to leave. the reason being is that many people it seems shun me out whenever i try to converse with them. I try to get past the usually mundane small talk college students do (whats your course? where you from? and so on) and try to connect with the person i want to become friends with. so far people have been excluding me and dont seem to have any interest in making friends with me. i dont act or do anything weird when i meet someone, i just introduce myself like a normal person. After that, the person am talking to just fucks off or talks to someone else. many people are making many friends right out the gate and here i am left behind. this to me is by far the most depressing, frustrating thing i have ever faced. i'll continue trying to put myself out there, however with what i've seen, its going to be really tough. I dont want the rest of my year to be like this. 

",15,1,1142.1746925732687,college
"The epitome of my college experience right here, ladies and gentlemen!",,0,1,1149.0265328510463,college
SUPER EXCITED,"So, I had my orientation today and at first it was kind of boring and it felt like i didnt need to actually be there. We eventually went to look at the dorms we were staying in and it made me so freaking ecstatic to actually ve leaving my house and being on my own(with 2 other roommates but still). I cant wait till i move in next month. Do you guys have any tips as to what i should bring when i do move in? ",4,0,1195.8907226658612,college
"Chances for Vanderbilt, Virginia, Cal","Hello all! I'm a Virginian rising senior and I'd like to see if any of you could tell me if I'd have a realistic shot at Vanderbilt, UVA, and Cal Berkeley. My stats are below:

UW GPA: ~3.9

W GPA: 4.116

Rank: top 10%

SAT: 1460 (710 CR, 750 M)

Junior year course load: Physics, AP Calc BC, Research, AP US History, AP English, Photojournalism, French 5

Senior year course load: GIS, AP Statistics, Advanced Calculus, Economics and Personal Finance, AP Government, DE English.

Extracurriculars: Scholastic Bowl (all 4 years), Science Olympiad (all 4 years), Indoor Track (sophomore/junior year), Outdoor Track (sophomore year), Tennis (senior year), National Honors Society (senior year)

I'm also planning on applying to Oregon, Virginia Tech, Clemson and maybe Oklahoma or Ohio State. I'm hesitant on Cal though because of how expensive it would be for out of state (not many scholarship opportunities). Any help appreciated!",3,0,1203.820525906602,college
"Accepted for a 10 week summer program, 16000+ miles away from home, never lived in a dorm, and not sure how to pack for the flight+dorm. Advice?","Hi all,

So I got accepted for a Research Experience for Undergrads (REU) for the summer. It's for 10 weeks, I'll be staying in a dorm at the University and I have to fly there (From Arizona to Indiana), and I have no idea how to go about packing for this.

Any advice for packing, what to expect, or how to prep for this would be amazing!

Edit: will be 1,600+ miles away",13,0,1283.3791948880835,college
This essay got a high-school senior into 5 Ivy League schools and Stanford,,2,0,1293.8321578510465,college
This is how much my intro to theatre professor wants me to spend on a textbook.,,11,1,1363.9644726658612,college
Edmonds Community College,"Hey team,
Does anybody else here attend EDCC?",0,2,1429.5531300732687,college
Graduation fees,"So I am graduating at the end of this semester and I always knew there was going to be a graduation. But now that there is a light at the end of the tunnel, I'm really pissed off about paying $55 additional dollars after dropping tens of thousands of dollars on my education with no guarantee that I'll even get into my chosen field. Other than college being a complete fucking scam, can anyone tell me why after all that money, time, and effort, I have to give them $55 just to get my diploma? I can't help but feel I've paid my dues literally and figuratively.",21,1,1444.3801323880834,college
The truth about studying for exams/mid-terms,,1,0,1457.6258962769725,college
How did you feel after failing final exams and not graduating at all?,"How did you feel, after you were forced to drop out of school so close to the goal, and have had nothing to show for after all those years? How long were you bitter about it? 

Thanks",3,0,1503.5526902584536,college
"I am going to double major and pre-med in an ""elite"" college; how do I handle my 24 credit hours?","I'm a rising freshman heading off to a top 40 national college. I plan on double majoring in both music (kind of have to since I was offered a full ride because of music) and biology, while aiming to complete the pre-med req. Total, I will have 24 credit hours, which is 7 more than recommended. My first semester class consist of: chem, chem lab, bio, bio lab, calc 1, music theory 1, music performance, and music ensemble. I plan to also volunteer/shadow at a local hospital every weekend. 
A little bit about me: I'm very average at math (680) but decent at chem (750) and bio (750). I have done very very little of music theory in my past. 
For those who have been in my position, how did you manage and what tips can you offer?",15,0,1552.3100745177132,college
"How do you all feel about people using adderall, cheating?","Currently studying in the library for finals and realized I would have been exhausted of studying hours ago had it not been for adderall. Thinking on it, adderall is widely used on my campus and everyone knows at least one person with a prescription.",22,0,1619.5363245177132,college
Ethnic identification on apps,"why? 

I understand it's optional but what purpose does it serve. Take a census after you've accepted those who fit the school. Ethnicity should have nothing to do with being accepted/denied.

just my opinion- please share.",4,0,1654.9434194251205,college
Parents: let Harvard go,,3,0,1701.872852295491,college
Do you think I got in?,"A bit of backstory. My twin brother and I applied to the same college less than a week and a half ago via rolling. He received his acceptance letter 2 days ago. I didn't. I emailed the admission office and they said they would mail it this afternoon. Does this mean I got in?
A bit of info on me. My GPA is about .1 below their average. However, my SAT scores are around 250 points above their average with the 1600 scale. I have 2 recommendations. They also have a 84% acceptance rate. I hate my pessimism.
Thank you.
Edit: I did.",5,0,1760.255873128824,college
I hate college and all it entails,"After I graduated i decided to attend community college in Santa Barbara as opposed to my own hometown, (Why, well SBCC is ""the number 1 community college in the nation"") which my mother refers to as the almighty fish bowl. I knew I needed an environment change but coming here was a brash decision and no one tried dissuade me. I work retail so you can imagine my overwhelming frustration with customers who come in expecting everything to be handed to them on sliver platter. Let's face it, Santa Barbara is full of snooty, rich people and they count for 3/4 of the demographic to which my store caters. Anyway, working in retail means things like stupid break initiatives, drama between other workers (because i work with only females... and I'm the only WOC) and my hours are now being cut which leaves me to writhe and cry and struggle to make up the last $100+ dollars I need to pay my rent in two days. I really feel isolated in this because here in the beachy, saggy city, everyone's parents give them handouts and I know my parents would try to help if they could but things aren't going so great back home financially, I mean my parents and younger sisters just moved into another house because our previous landlord decided to sell /then/ inform my mother and father. Speaking of which, my father was let go of his position (i call sabotage) for a ridiculous reason which I'm sure could have been used in a wrongful termination suit, but my good hearted, saint of a man father doesn't like to hold grudges or screw people over like the rest of the world so apparently does. And as if that weren't enough, the washing machine where I'm living doesn't work and now I'm going to have to find quarters to wash my clothes at a laundromat with my fucking invisible car. Did i mention I'm out of groceries? HAHA, silly me thinking growing up would be an adventure. And if anyone tries to feed my the bullshit that ""everyone goes through this"" i will probably punch you in the fucking throat because I can physically see how I am one of a small, tiny, tiny group who is experiencing this. ",10,0,2026.836301369565,college
What's your college major?,"I'm currently a Mechanical Engineering student at college, 2nd year in. What's your's?",24,0,2053.7831184991946,college
What university course should I take?,"I have completed 2.5 years in my Chemical Engineering, UG programme. And I am quitting it. I have begun to hate it and I had to take it unwillingly. I am 20.

I am interested in computers, mathematics and have always been good at them.

I am thinking about computer hardware engineering and cognitive science.

Cognitive science hugely interests me, but I might even be jobless after taking it!

I don't really know what should I study so that I could have a job which I would actually enjoy and earn decent money too.
",11,0,2096.093037480676,college
How poorly will I do with math in college?,"I'm just bad at math. I can't help it. I want to major in computer science, which is something I'm good at. I'm good at programming and I understand computer science concepts, but when it comes to math, my mind goes on lockdown and no information is allowed in. Throughout high school I have always had a B in math while making A's in the rest of my classes. Right now I take pre-calculus, which I have a B in. All of the concepts we study I eventually understand enough to make me pass the tests and quizzes with B's, after I ask the teacher for help multiple times. And with what everybody has told me about college professors, I'll probably never talk to a professor ever in my college career, right? I just don't think I'll be able to keep up in the math classes enough to do well. How would I even find study groups? I realized all of this today and I got really concerned. ",17,2,2097.7875166473427,college
How can I get my college's sub to take off?,"Hey,

My friend goes to a school down the block from my school, so we set up a subreddit for the 2 schools in our town. However, there is absolutely no activity. We don't exactly know people who use reddit. So...what to do?",6,0,2098.1193569251204,college
College Payment Help!!!!,"So here's my situation, I have ridiculous parents who can pay but won't pay for college. How can I pay for college, and housing and food and so on",11,2,2098.7659309991946,college
College chances?,"I'm looking to apply at some of the ivys and want to know if I legitimately have a chance of getting in-- Stanford, Harvard, Columbia, etc.
4.0 GPA
Top 5% of class
Nevada resident
Leadership experience: started my own community service club, student council
Varsity volleyball but don't plan to continue in college
2200 SAT and 33 ACT

Anything you can think of to help with the application process?",7,1,2292.809171739935,college
Hey redditors i am due to graduate in 4 days from highschool and have no idea how im going to fund my college education! Please help,So i am a high school senior and my last day of school is may 31st and i would like to say i am not a u.s citizen up till December i was an illegal immigrant. I got accepted into deferred action for childhood arrivals and i can now work and stay legally in the U.S for two years. I live in san diego and their are alots of community colleges but i have no idea how im going to pay for my classes as i do not qualify for FAFSA i applied for the dream act (http://www.csac.ca.gov/dream_act.asp) and have not yet had a response from them does any one have good advice? ,8,0,2334.0319610917873,college
I'm in the middle of a semester and have only gone to my Chem class for tests. Have any of you guys gotten a good grade and almost never went to class? ,"Basically, from what I know, this class is a huge lecture hall, the professor has a heavy asian accent, and all the stuff he teaches us is condensed into easy to follow youtube videos by the Kahn Academy. 

It's harder for me to go because I commute. If I went to Chem I would have to leave my house at 12:00. If I skip it I get to leave my house at 2:30. That two and a half hours gives me time to do homework and prep for my classes later that day, as well as kick back and relax. 

I need inspiration to either go, or continue not going! 

EDIT: downvotes apparently. I would assume this is relevant to /r/college, but I suppose not. ",10,0,2561.1978291473424,college
Do you get irritated when people ask you what you got an an exam?,Every class I get exams back people just ask me really loudly putting me on blast what I got on the test. I feel like they just want to see if I got a lower than them so they can feel better about themselves. I feel like I should just start saying I got a 100% even if I didn’t do give them something that will get in their head.,24,0,12.327238869564953,college
Being a Muslim in College,"Hi, so I'm a muslim kid who wants to live away from home.

I was wondering if any muslim's could share their experiences with adapting to life in a non family/desi space. 

For example, what is like not having halal food (for the most part) readily available is like. Or having it not be socially known that muslim's use lotas. 

Thank you :)",2,0,45.87157914734273,college
"Just wondering... As a college student, especially if you're a girl, what is your #1 problem when it comes to college life?","It can be about school work, stress, issues with frats, anything at all! 

Just curious to know.",13,1,68.93446109178717,college
Should I be worried!?!,"I was trying to send an email to my advisor about a class I'm planning to take, but aftering sending it I realized after that I typed ""meth class"" instead of ""math""!! I forward it again to her mentioning the typo but I'm freaking out, I still haven't gotten a response back yet. Am I probably overreacting...?",5,1,121.36850044363904,college
How do I ask for my Grade to be rounded up?,"I am 1.3% away from a passing grade. Final grades are up. I only have 1 semester to finish my undergrad, but this class is only offered in the Spring. Meaning I would have to stay an additional year, versus the one semester I have have remaining.

What is the best way to ask for the professor to round my grade up, specifically over email?

I don’t want to pressure him, but at the same time this is pretty serious.",2,2,148.97241248067607,college
This is absolutely ridiculous,Hey guys I don’t know if this is the correct place to posts this but finals are done for me and I’ve finished one of my classes with a 69.86% overall. I emailed the professor and he says his rounding policy is firm and he won’t pass me. Is there anything I could do? I emailed him and he said he understands my frustration but he won’t change his policy.,7,0,169.42537544363904,college
This is what I do one day before an exam.,"Email everyone in the class to swap study guides, they’ll usually send me theirs first and I’ll just pass around guides with others until I have them all, then I just study off the best looking ones. Easy A baby :)",2,0,178.62394025845384,college
Bath and Body Works should make a scent called “The College Experience” - booze and weed.,Because that it what you smell at the corridor 24/7 ,0,0,200.66022498067605,college
"Dear Professors, Please Fail Us","It's no secret in the college system (i.e. private institutions that aren't universities) that grade inflation is ever present among us. My school is one of these small colleges that have fallen victim to grade inflations in order to keep departments and professors' jobs alive. It's a vicious cycle--if a professor grades too harshly (fair or not), he or she is often blasted on the semester-end course reviews and then gets attacked by the administration for lack of student satisfaction/for the amount of low grades in the class. Thus, these professors, especially those without tenure, are coerced into giving out generous A's and B's instead of giving students the reality check they need. Indeed, many students from my school end up going on to Master's programs that they aren't prepared for because they glided through undergrad with undeserved A's and B's and are suddenly confused why they're receiving C's and D's. I'm tired of seeing students who truly put in the work get nearly the same grade as students who don't put in the same amount of effort--and all this due to a battle between the administration and the faculty. Please, professors, if a student doesn't deserve the A or B, don't give it to him or her. Fail us. Teach those among us the lesson they deserve to be taught. Don't bend to the whims of the administration. ",1,0,210.13053748067605,college
Is it possible to opt out of drawing nude models in college?,"I plan to major in art and animation in college, which involves humans and animals, but I cannot draw nude models. Of course I'm interested in learning anatomy because I primarily draw humans, but not genitalia. The exposure of genitalia outside of the bedroom (the ""bedroom"" being between two adults in a romantic and/or sexual relationship beyond the eye's view) is strictly prohibited in my moral and religious beliefs. I don't understand why the human body has to be studied in the nude when alternatives such as wearing body suits or form fitting underwear would be able to serve the same purpose. You would still see the contour of the body, the curves, the anatomy aside from the genitals, etc. which are the main important parts, no? But of course, nude drawing is this ""sacred tradition"" that is elite to any other form of learning anatomy..

Anyway, since it would likely be impossible to have a compromise like that, is it possible to at least opt out of nude drawing for reasons such as mine? Shouldn't discrimination and ethics laws allow that? I want to follow my dream, but I also want to do so in a pure manner. (I live in the US btw, if that helps)",5,2,267.1480490547501,college
How bad is life after college?,"So I'm at my last semester of college with a worthless degree in journalism, a career that doesn't pay much which I regret. I don't know if to get a job out of state of just stay where I'm at and not go anywhere. 

But I'm pretty much prepared to be broke and be riddled with debt so I'm thinking about what to cut off and whatnot. So what is your experience of someone you know who graduated college?",16,0,291.6915559991946,college
I am beginning to seriously regret my college & major choice - is this normal? Looking for advice.,"**TL/DR: I made my college/major choice based off of salary and job outlook and not off of something I actually enjoyed doing and was passionate about. Now I am beginning to realize the mistake I've made and I'm not sure what to do - I'm unhappy and I'm completely lost.** 

&#x200B;

I'm a 21 year old junior currently in his 5th semester at a well-respected technical college in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. I graduated high school in 2016, not really sure about what I wanted to do as a career. I was a good student, graduated in the top, say, 30-40 in my class (so middle of the pack), and also got Eagle Scout in 2015. In high school I cherished three things, particularly: art, music, and primarily history. While looking for colleges however I realized that none of those three ""professions"", per say, made a respectable living salary in comparison with other career choices. 

&#x200B;

So, in a hasty panic, I chose the next-best option: I loved to cook and eat, so why not do something in culinary arts and hospitality? And so I found myself on the doorstep of Pennsylvania College of Technology and took a tour. My initial reaction was basically ""Wow, this school is perfect. Good social opportunities (it seems), great instructors, a perfectly blended combination of hands-on and classroom education"". So I applied and was pretty easily accepted. My first semester (Fall 2016) was fantastic - I managed to get on the Dean's List (requirement of 3.5 GPA) with a GPA of 3.73 and knew I had made the right choice. Perhaps this field could be a hidden gem. And this is where the optimism ends...

&#x200B;

My second semester (Spring 2017) was an unmitigated disaster. I finished with a GPA barely over 3 (3.07 I think). My kitchen lab professor and math professors were terrible. I was getting poor grades I hadn't really ever gotten before. And on top of this I had an internship requirement for that summer. Let's just say that this internship ended up being the most frustrating and crushing two months of my entire life, and we'll keep it at that. My third semester (Fall 2017)  was decent as I was recovering from my awful internship and took a break from the kitchen (due to the funkiness of the curriculum) and had classes that focused on my beverage management concepts. 

&#x200B;

Fourth semester (Spring 2018) was my turning point. Mid-February I had realized that I had made a mistake in my major choice and decided on either transferring to a new school (in which I'd run the risk of almost none of my credits transferring making my first 2 years at Penn College a complete waste)  or stay within Penn College's School of Business and Hospitality and go from culinary arts -> applied business management and hospitality management dual-bachelors. 

&#x200B;

So here I am typing this now with finals starting next week, my fifth semester coming to a close. It had been an alright semester, given that I have just switched majors over the summer. Currently though I am not very happy - my social life here sucks (the social opportunities here are comically minimal and most students here aren't that sociable anyways - and I'm more of an omnivert), there aren't that many extracurricular options that have garnered my interest (most students here aren't enrolled in clubs or the clubs are very, VERY small). The town, Williamsport, is void of anything fun to do. 

&#x200B;

I'm lost, and I'm not happy about the current path that I am on. Yet I feel like I've come to this realization a bit too late and I've fucked myself over already and now I'm just paying the price, figuratively and literally. I know that if I decide to change schools and majors I am basically rendering my education over the last 2-3 years obsolete and putting myself back at square one. 

&#x200B;

What should I do? ",4,0,314.1153407214168,college
How do I study when I'm cold?,"I go to college in Western New York and sometimes it gets really cold. I'm studying in the first floor lounge of my dorm but I'm really cold. My hands in particular are freezing. It makes it really hard to concentrate or even write/type. What should I do?

Edit: I'm wearing a very warm jacket inside, and gloves when I'm typing, but I'm still cold.",13,2,341.05112775845384,college
I have two midterms on monday and tuesday (nxt week) and I keep fucking procrastinating.,"I have two midterms for classes that I don't know jack shit for. I go to one class every week, the other class every other day haha. (Somebody signs my name for attendance credit, all the class does is recap the assigned textbook reading.) Now, I have to prepare thoroughly for them over the weekend. Like imagine taking notes and memorizing 300 pages in two days. That's what imma be doing.

Problem is that I absolutely will get drunk today (friday) (no exceptions, i usually don't drink but I just gotta let loose). Might also get drunk saturday night but I'll probably stay in. I have an A- one class and a C in the other (but class only has 3 grades in worth 15%, the test is 30% of your total grade). I could totally ace them and have two a's in the classes or tremendously fuck up and ruin both classes. I also have a 3.86 gpa and I need to raise it.

I'm up all night tonight studying for some reason. I already drank a lot of coffee. I'm staying up. Anyone want to give advice or respond to my situation. Sorry I just had to let this off my chest right now at 2 am. I'm making some really stupid mistakes I usually dont do. I hope I make it through. ",5,0,356.64228516586127,college
I Completed 4 College Courses in 30 Days,"Just a little motivation post for anyone in my situation, looking to complete college classes as fast at they can. I needed to complete these 4 classes to be able to go into grad school I also wanted to save money as Study . com charges per month.

* I completed 4 college courses (12 credits) in 30 days that are transferable to a 4 year university.
* I went through Study dot com
* I completed
   * Public Speaking
   * American Literature
   * Analyzing and Interpreting
   * College Composition II
* Thats...
   * 318 Quizzes (5 questions each)
   * 391 Lessons
   * 4 Final Exams
   * 9 Essays

It IS possible with motivation, organization and staying focused! Let me know if you have any questions!",9,0,366.16513238808346,college
I’m a senior about to graduate with no experience. Should I switch my major and stay for another 4 years??,,18,0,376.413500443639,college
Best small games to play in class ?,"Beside a clicker wich is just fun for a few hours, what games need little input and could be fun ? 

&#x200B;

Am really bored :C",14,2,402.7056763695649,college
Should I drop a class because of an American-centric professor?,"On the first day of class for Intro to Political Theory, my professor conveyed that her class would be centered around American affairs, as the two hours, oddly enough, focused on contemporary American issues, which concluded with a blanketed assertion that the same issues apply to Western political thought throughout history. She also referred to the United States as being the ""freest, richest"" and generally best nation in the world.

Is it right to view this as a warning that the professor will not be objective throughout the course, or am I not giving this experienced professor of 20+ years not enough credit?",5,1,423.7102597028983,college
"$1,000 Scholarship Opportunity for College Students",,0,3,428.14961155475015,college
Is it acceptable to tell my advisor that I cheated my way through a class? You,"I did surpassingly well in my class, but I eventually found out I could pay someone to finish my homework, and they did better than I did. I felt guilty but I was busy with work and other tough classes. 

But I have to take the advanced class this fall and don’t feel 100% prepared, I’m wondering if there is a way to tell my advisor I’m looking for the easiest professor or best way forward. 

I don’t want to be rude or lie to her, but I really want the best advice and I’ll bite a little humiliation if I get a little more help. ",8,1,438.7344263695649,college
"Man, was I wrong.","As a grad student, I am getting a $10,250 loan per semester. I thought I would have a substantial amount left, but after room, board, tuition, fees and books, I will be lucky if there is anything left for supplies. Thankfully I am not going to an Ivy league. Vote for free education... I still want a PhD.",15,0,439.91513238808346,college
Why do we push kids so much towards college but basically ignore trade schools?,"Not all kids can handle college, yet we assume they all can when trades are in high demand and pay very well. We need to advertise those and not make college seem like the only option to a successful life. ",16,1,477.947088406602,college
Showering in college dorms,"Hi,
I’m currently in one of the Harvard dorms (Thayer) and I was wondering when is the best time to shower without seeing anyone, and how do I go about it? I heard it’s inoortsnt to use a robe, bring a caddy, and use slippers. I’m so nervous about it that some family members and friends said I should shower in boxers just in case. I also need to know what time I should shower to avoid people and what not. I’m very stressed when regarding this topic, and I don’t know what to do, it’s my first time. ",9,0,480.9124934991946,college
Suggestion on What to Study to Make 6 Figures,"Hello Reddit, I am currently taking summer classes for my first year at Comunity College. After Community college however, I have no idea where to go. I plan on transferring to a University my junior year. My main goal with education is to get a job where I can make six figures. I just need some suggestions on what I should study in order to reach my goal. Can somebody throw out some suggestions for me? ",19,1,501.7422272954909,college
how are people who smoke weed,"Call me a pussy or whatever, but I was always under the impression that people who smoke weed are bad. 

I found a potential roommate and everything seems good, but he smokes weed.

If you've lived with people who smoke a lot, how were they?",10,1,569.3933268325279,college
THIS is what college is as a lib-arts major (Specifically a Communication major),,8,0,598.0754680362315,college
What is your GPA?,,22,0,598.3945073880835,college
"My scholarship application, 300 words. Let me know what you think please.","This is an application for a scholarship to a community college. I am 26 years old and hoping to return to school this fall. The question asked was ""Share a significant experience, achievement, or ethical dilemma you have faced and what you learned from it."" I have not been to school in about 7 years so please do not expect perfection :) 

""Being a homeless drug addict struggling with severe anxiety and depression was never something I intended, I only began using drugs during high school to help alleviate depression. However, once I awoke in my car for the 2nd year straight, having not eaten in days and waking only with the sole intent on finding means to purchase and use drugs, I began to realize that my life had become devoid of any true meaning. 

See, that's the horrible thing addiction does to a person. It saps any soul and purpose left in their life leaving behind a shell of a human being,  one that spends all of their time working towards a daily goal of getting high or drunk, incidentally destroying the lives of themselves and those around them. I once was an accomplished violinist and intelligent individual with a bright future but due to a genetic predisposition, a troubled childhood, mental illness and poor peer influences I was dragged down further and further into the hell that is addiction. 

In the past decade I have nearly died from 9 separate suicide attempts due to depression, spent weeks upon weeks in isolation fighting the battle in my mind that is social anxiety, and relapsed several times on my road to recovery. In spite of this I am today, after much hard work, a clean and sober, mentally stable, and emotionally aware individual. Entirely confident and proud of the man I've become, knowing I've faced these battles and overcome them only with the help of others, my own strong will, and the grace of God. 


I choose now to pursue a career in which I may help those who face similar struggles. Hoping that I may use my experience to improve their lives, and truly make an impact on the world.""",7,2,600.6407110917872,college
"Age 23, Junior, going for Computer Science degree, have no friends due to shitty parents","That's my situation. I like playing video games, listening to music, (metal has been a favorite of mine due to...impatience and frustration thanks to the stress of the past month) tinkering with my computer, etc.. Also, I'm a conservative. Not the, ""if you don't love Jesus, you ain't a true 'MURICAN"" conservative, but more the, ""well, I believe this is what works best"" type of conservative. 

I don't want to leave college with no friends, but when you are honestly all of the above, is there any hope for someone like yours truly attending university, especially with how people are these days?",17,0,639.543650906602,college
Chances of a successful appeal?,"I was dismissed with the chance to appeal. I needed a 2.0 gpa and had just a hair under it. 

My appeal would talk about how my severe anxiety and panic attacks prevented me from fully dedicating to school. And now that I'm on effective medication finally that I can finally be a more complete and motivated me.

Tldr is severe anxiety and panic disorder a good reason in a dismissal appeal on college",9,0,654.8771810107374,college
what to major in?,I want something pays 6 figures or um highest pay possible ,9,0,704.8501786959226,college
A college education is worthless unless you graduate from an elite/prestigious university?,"Is it true that a college education is worthless unless you graduate from an elite and prestigious university like Harvard, Yale, Stanford, MIT, Oxford, etc?....",24,0,800.8546578625893,college
Why are people antisocial in class?,"I've noticed that maybe only a couple people in each class will actually try to meet new people. The others either A) go through the class sitting by themselves and don't meet anyone B) enter the class with a previous acquaintance and sit with them till the end of the quarter.


Why does this happen? Whatever happened to just talking and making new friends, why does there always has to be sexual tension or why does striking up a conversation with a stranger have to be something uncommon and stressful. 

I try not to judge other people, but I can't figure out whether my classmates are either constantly judging others or whether they feel they themselves are being constantly judged. I can't even make friends in class, much less meet women. Most of my friends come from my dorm or Greek life. 

Why so?",11,0,803.6967527699967,college
Post Fall Schedules Here,"I'm curious as to what classes you guys are taking next semester! As for me, I'm taking: 

Human Biology at 12:00-1:15 PM MW with lab on M 2:00-3:20 PM 
Elementary ASL I at 9:00-9:50 AM with lab on M 5:00-5:50 PM 
Business Communications at 11-11:50 AM MWF 
Accounting Principles I at 8:00-8:50 AM MWF 
Principles of Economics I at 10:00-10:50 AM MWF
Marching Band at 4:00-6:00 PM WF
Chorale at 11:50-12:40 PM TTh 

I am taking 18 hours. ",15,1,864.1010814737004,college
Here's Why Black Harvard Students Are Holding Their Own Graduation Ceremony,,16,0,892.1363245292561,college
Worst time of my life,"So I'm a freshman in second semester and I absolutely hate this entire experience. I enrolled as a physics major but had to swap classes to spend the first semester brushing up on my math skills. Come second semester, I take the normal level (instead of honors level like in beginning of semester 1) physics class...
This has got to be he biggest waste of time I've ever seen. The course is not in depth at all and moves incredibly quick. This will likely cause me to have to take physics 1 again because I guarantee I won't understand it by the end of this semester. It's so bad I don't even know if I can pass.
I feel like I should not have to self teach 90% of the content...and as a result I have no motivation to spend the next 4 years of my life retaking courses because they don't go in depth at all.

I'm also pretty shit at math but no other majors interest me in the slightest. Only reason I don't drop out is because I will think I'm a failure. 

Any advice? (Office hours and tutoring centers are useless, in my school at least)",7,2,976.8786740662929,college
Appropriate to dab on stage while receive my diploma during my undergraduate commencement tomorrow?,Idk I just want to do it for the insta and don’t want to get in trouble 👀,9,0,124.74701897370042,college
Hate everyone on my dorm floor,"I can’t wait until I leave all these fuckers in less than 4 months. Every time I hear one of them walking down the hallway, opening their doors, or talking, I literally want to flip shit. I hate every fucking one of them.

My rooming situation is fucked, too, since I got placed into a walkthrough double and my “roommate” has to walk through my room and open my doors every fucking time to get to his room (the inside one). Not to mention, his room is significantly more spacious and has a much better view than mine for no damn reason. On numerous occasions, I’ve been trying to go to sleep at 3am only to have this fucker make a late night piss run and slam my doors on the way out.

As you may tell, I have made exactly 0 friends this year and am perfectly fine with that. ",5,0,269.48910230703376,college
Why do people still talk about prom in college?,"My friend and I met at college. High school prom was 2 years ago. She still gushes over it, and she criticized her sister for not attending her prom. I felt bad for her sister, but it's not any of my business. When I casually mentioned that I didn't think it was a big deal and I didn't go to mine, she shamed me and went on to talk about how prom is so important and such a big deal and a milestone of life and stuff. I never really cared about not going but she's acting as if I've missed out on a huge life event... I just don't see the point of talking about it?",13,4,537.711810640367,college
What do ACT scores actually mean?,"I know that college look at grades, the ACT/SAT, and extra curriculars during when determining admission. How much importance do colleges put on ACT scores? I recently took the ACT and got a 35. Everyone around me says that that is great and will help me when it's time to apply in a year or so. How true is this?",11,0,663.3431300848115,college
What is your opinion on affirmative action in colleges?,"Personally, I think if people less capable are given better opportunities, then it is detrimental to society as a whole, due to limitations set on those who are more accomplished as students.",26,4,1285.9094958255523,college
15 year old going to college in a few years. Advice?,"When I am 15 in a few years, I will be heading to college. Right now what we have planned is me going to a local college, and then maybe go somewhere else for grad school. I might be spoiled, selfish, or something, but I don't want to go there. They have a horrible CS department. It's always been my dream to go to MIT! I have a 4.6 GPA, I'm considered a piano prodigy, and I really think I could get in! The problem is living there.

I think I could live there by myself. There couldn't be any wild parties or anything. It's MIT. It's a bunch of nerds. I think everyone would be focused on studying, like I am. I opened up about it to my sister and my mom, and they said that I probably couldn't since they're concerned about parties.

Even if there were parties, I would stay out of them. Reddit, What would you say in this situation?



EDIT: I forgot to mention -- I live in Florida. So commuting daily is implausible to say the least. ",32,0,1419.876486566293,college
Is it possible to reach 2.0 GPA with just two semesters?,"Hello to the reader . I do not know if I've written this question in the right place . If I havent , I still would really apprieciate you to help answer this question . 

I am unable to attend my school and it told me to take two semesters in another school and id be able to come back . But Im just really confused. 

Please help me. My current gpa is 1.37 . .. what would it be after two semesters from your good guess? thank you so much for helping me. 

bless. ",22,0,1589.4532458255524,college
"The local state university off for one whole month? Really???!? WTH!!?!??!! Apparently, yes: see the linked article explaining this new reality. Things change a lot when you get old.",,18,0,1761.3236277699968,college
I hate tests.,"Nothing like thinking you aced the test, only to be punched by reality. My final grade (summer class) is close to a 100%, thanks to other assignments; but I've always really hated tests. Back way when, when Digg was still popular (and I didn't really use the Internet), I got a ~1500/2400 on my SAT, but I had close to 4.0 unweighted GPA. Even if I study; know all the answers; and participate in everything, I usually manage an average test grade. Although once in a moon I get a 100. I still remember getting a 110/100 on my calculus 3 test. Anyway, getting that low SAT really messed up my future options, and I've had a deep anxiety for tests since then -- even when I thought I knew everything.",5,5,2279.2000976774043,college
Wikipedia is NOT an acceptable scholarly reference.,"To all the undergrad students out there...please stop citing Wikipedia. It is a lovely resource for the general populace, but is NOT an acceptable scholarly reference. I'm about to lose my shit with the papers I'm marking now.",17,12,2424.950537492219,college
How to supress memories from high school fast!?,"It's 1 in the morning and I'm laying here crying (mind you, I have a 9 a.m. class tomorrow) because, after some instagram stalking, I found my crush's prom picture with another girl. I knew he went to prom with another girl, I was there and saw them, but seeing those pictures and how happy they were together just reminded me how worthless I am. I liked him for a good chunk of high school. He knew I did. I basically 'threw myself at him' and he did everything in his power to dodge me. I feel like an idiot cuz Im usually not like this with relationships (it's either you like me or you dont, I move on quickly) but I was so obsessed with him I embarrased myself all to be rejected and chosen over. So my question is, how do I quickly supress memories so I forget my high school crush and I ever met? Do I use hypnotism? Mind control? Any pills I can take? I can't afford surgery.",17,1,37.75773656629302,college
How did college go from actual education to just repeating information and passing?,,6,0,364.30539860333005,college
(Important Do’s and Don’ts) I started college at a major US University. Do not do what I did.,"You are starting college! Away from parents/home for the first time! Many of you are in dorm rooms! Here is how to not mess up!

I was in your shoes at the University of Utah in 2013. Five years have passed and I am a failure. My sister is going to Stanford this year and she is the opposite of me. I felt like I should share this disorganized rant of how serious this part of your life is. 

I am an absolute failure and a wastoid. I hate myself and self harm ocassionally, doing not a whole lot of anything, i have few friends and live in a small mountain farm town at age 23 with my grandparents, unable to keep a job. last time i tried college i had such a bad mental breakdown that i would punch myself in the face and got police called on me for publicly screaming and hurting myself, bloody lip and nose. no life or prospects for marriage or money. i hate myself  i cut myself. i often want to end my life and am in expensive drug rehab treatment. i hate myself. do not end up like me i do notnwish it upon my worst enemy

**School**

Take notes and study. Make friends with the smart people in the class. Don’t worry about missing out on “fun” that can be a good thing. Study groups and TAs exist- do not waste your/your parents/scholarship money!! Actually go to class and study.

**Partying.**

Avoid Alcohol. Avoid Marijuana. Avoid Marijuana. Did I say avoid Marijuana? Avoid drugs of all kinds actually, as well as the people doing them. Youll do best to focus on school and if you befriend those types it has an osmosis like effect. I am a college “failure” and I dropped out of school three times because of this. You ought to be filling your head with new information, ideas on how to help others, figuring your life out. Weed can destroy your college career.

A lot of people at this age(18-19) are naive and think some drinking and some weed smoking is a part of college life. These people rarely go far in life. Avoid them. I was one of these people. I left school and spent time in rehabs because years later when weed started making me paranoid and alcohol didnt give me the feelings I wanted, I did a lot of pills and opiates. At age 23 I am not in a successful place and I can trace it to me looking for chemical fun instead of becoming disciplined at age 18. It is a tragedy. A close childhood friend of mine died of a heroin overdose last week. Please do not alter your consciousness. Keep in mind in College I was the deadhead who took LSD a lot and smoked weed every day and did a lot of adderall. I regret ever starting because all of it led to me having opiate addictions and psychological problems later in life. Better to be a square than to be a burnout like me or dead like my old friend is.

**Sex.**

You are better off not getting too caught up in this. Be a gentleman and be good to female friends but ladies and gentlemen, you don’t want syphilis or some other venereal disease and you don’t want to have awkward run ins with one off sexual partners you have classes with. It is a distraction. It’s your choice and all, but especially to any young women reading this- I bet if you save it until you are married or in a long term relationship that is serious with a really good person, it has more value and less problems. In general treat this as another drug that can lead to all kinds of emotions, my personal advice is to be a prudish dork and focus on school, I was not. Who knows what VD I have. Gross.

**Watch out who you associate with**

Be careful to be friends with people thinking long term. This will be what seperates you from people who are messing around and not getting good grades. 

Like I said, utilize tutors, go to study groups, take things seriously. It is cushy in college but in the real world things can be gnarly(from my experience living without a degree, i failed everything and my first semester was great but I was too focused on drugs and esoteric bs and got in really bad places)

**Your safety zone should be:**

1.Go to every class
2. Take notes
3. Study those notes
4. Know your professors.


Again,


(my advice from experience)Avoid:
Drugs(including alcohol- seriously that’s the most dangerous drug)
Risky sex
People who are not thinking long term



I don’t want to see any of you reading this ending up on the street or in pornographic streams or movies(i dont watch that stuff anymore) or like I am, 23 living alone with my grandparents with a 1.6 gpa and getting nervous breakdowns every time i go to try getting a minimum wage job where i have been sexually assaulted in the past, yada yada yada.


 I am not trying to scare anybody or sound like a puritanical mormon, but these are things I would do if i had a time machine. You are free for the first time ever, be very responsible, I am a total loser do not end up like me, suicidal at times, alone when I am not around family, and in and out of intensive drug/mental health treatment centers.

Take your lives seriously for the love of all tht is sacred and holy.

And religion helps people maybe be friends with the religious kids I don’t know. You don’t have to be religious but that is all I have left.

Thanks for reading",6,4,424.84603517740413,college
Straight A student Got B’s [Please Help],"Guys I’m a total mess right now. My quarter is almost over and I know I’m not gonna get any A’s. I feel so ashamed and disappointed in myself. I started off rough in all of my classes this quarter, and I tried so hard to bring up my grades to an A, but no matter how hard I tried this quarter, things were only slightly improving, but not enough to bring me up to an A. 

I know this may sound crazy, but I’ve been crying almost everyday about this. I truly feel like giving up. I feel so stupid that I couldn’t get all A’s this quarter. I don’t know what to do with my self. Finals are next week, I don’t see what the point is in studying for them anymore since I can’t get an A in my classes.

I really need help. I know I shouldn’t be feeling so shitty like this, but I can’t help it. I’ve worked so hard this quarter and I still wasn’t good enough. Even my parents were telling me that they were proud of me that I did my best. But I still feel that my best wasn’t good enough. I feel like a failure. I’m a premed student and I know how Bs can get you rejected from med school.

I put a lot of my worth into my grades and I wish I can stop doing this to myself because I’m never proud of what I do. Has anyone else ever felt this way? How do you overcome these feelings and move on? I want to do better next quarter, but now that I know these Bs are gonna be on my transcript, I don’t have any motivation to do well anymore. 

I cry almost every night about this and I really want it to stop. I’m tired of feeling stupid and like a failure 
",6,0,481.1907805477745,college
Is college worth it?,"Every college I’ve gotten into will be around $35-37k a year after FAFSA, and both of my parents and me COMBINED only make around $35k a year. Is it worth going $120k in debt for a degree? ",39,1,537.3353986033301,college
Someone came to my floor trying to sell tests.,"So, earlier today a sophomore student came to my all-freshman floor trying to sell copies of his test for the chem exam most of us are taking on Monday. He went on to brag about how much money he made last weekend from selling tests. I got it all on video, I have his name, where he lives, and multiple testimonies from various floor mates. I'm wondering where I go from here. Should I bring it up to the dean of students? Is my footage able to be accepted as legitimate evidence? Will he even get punished for this? (I'm not sure if our academic code of conduct covers this, as it's a bit of an odd situation.)  ",10,0,733.9504217514783,college
I would love to find a conservative college that doesn't push Evangelicalism on their students like Liberty or Oral Roberts. Does Anyone have any suggestions?,,28,0,892.9793222144411,college
Use these two words on your college essay to get into Harvard,,1,0,1529.1772041588856,college
The growing gender imbalance in higher ed: Where have all the boys gone?,,1,3,1569.281451844071,college
Fallout from campus sexual assault hysteria: College men now suspicious of women,,0,0,1880.4234078625893,college
A College Success Story,"     I'm a freshman in college this year, and I'm pre-majoring in English at my local community college before I transfer to a university.  I have an English class every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.  This class is an hour long and we have a paper to write every two weeks or so.  Wednesday was our peer review day, and my teacher offered to read through our rough-drafts so I asked her to look at mine.  After she had read through it she returned it to me and told me that she had good news and bad.  The good news was that she couldn't find anything wrong with my paper.  The bad news was that she couldn't find anything wrong with my paper.  Based on my previous papers she thinks that there really isn't much she can teach me to improve my writing skills and that I need to consider a career centered around writing.  I've always wanted to be an author, and this has made my week.  This post is really just to share with people that happiness exists and that college is awesome!",4,1,2176.3982805477744,college
Weird roommate,So I just moved into my dorm last week with a complete stranger if a roommate. He seems like a nice guy but acts really strange. I'll bring so friends over all female and he'll act fine while they are in the room but once they leave he changes. He'll tell me I need to tell him if I have friends come over. I don't know what to do about it he is acting really weird about the whole thing and I don't know what to do.,20,4,2229.957447214441,college
What could possibly go wrong?,,0,0,2392.001671751478,college
The monopoly that provides SAT scores (collegeboard)  has crashed!,"Thousands of stressed out kids can't get their scores and the College Board is trying to keep it quiet by not updating their twitter feed , facebook or website.",11,4,2394.4079448996263,college
Which Ivy fits what personality type?,,0,3,2911.0193800848115,college
Reporting an incompetent professor,"I’m currently taking Anatomy and Physiology, and this is the professor’s first year teaching at this school (he previously taught at another school). He rambles in his lectures, is scatterbrained, and his answers are not even related to the questions that students ask. He also makes us feel like we’re stupid for even asking and expects us to know the material before entering the class. He has anger issues. 

He recently gave us a take-home exam and let us use any resources (easy A, right?) WRONG. The day the test was due, he went over the answers. One question was, “what is pH?” 90% of the class said, “it’s the measurement of acidity and alkalinity.” He said “If it doesn’t include “the measure of hydrogen ion concentration, it’s wrong.” And wouldn’t give partial credit. Our definitions weren’t wrong, it’s just not what he wanted. 

I’m frustrated because if he allows us to use multiple sources, it’s irrational to be this picky about answers, particularly when it comes to multiple-definition vocabulary like this. He did this with most of the exam. I wish I was kidding. 

The questions from the exam were ready-made and not even based on what we learned in class. There were organic chemistry and cell biology components in this exam; if I hadn’t previously taken those, I would’ve been extremely confused. 

It is extremely frustrating that the professor’s grading is subjective on what he thinks is correct. I pay too much to take this class and I cannot afford to fail. 

I would switch my professor but he’s the only one in our school that teaches this subject. Would it be wrong to report him?

EDIT: I looked up his profile from his previous school on ratemyprofessor. He has a 2.0 rating •_• The complaints are similar to what my class is experiencing.",7,2,26.258662492218946,college
Is there anyone who actually starts studying weeks before an exam?,why draw out the misery,12,1,296.0520652699967,college
Why do college students like rap so much?,"Like it’s good at parties but I don’t understand why it’s so many people’s favorite music. Most rappers are from inner cities and don’t have relatable lives to the majority of college students so what makes this music so attractive to people? If you listen to the lyrics it’s mostly always just about sex, violence, and drugs.",12,0,485.9355143440708,college
Question: Are ya'll or your parents concerned about #metoo (sexual harassment) at internships?,"I'm a female working in an industry that has had some recent media about #metoo and sexual harassment.  The industry is avoiding responsibility and wants to keep the harassers.  And we have a history of (male) employees sexually harassing (female) interns.  


Interns keep asking me what's it like to work in this field, or that they want to start.  I can't really talk about #metoo without possibly getting fired.  


But interns, parents and schools can.


Are you, or your parents or the University talking about #metoo at internships?  Or is there a different place to discuss this or share this information?  Or is this not a big issue for students?",6,2,557.0060583255523,college
"So there's this student at my university who has been, for about a year I'd say, preaching in our campus quad about the glories of communism and how much better our society would be with it, etc. He and his ""followers"" also hand out pamphlets to passers by. Is he allowed to do this?",He also carries communist memorabilia like the Russian flag and portraits of Marx and Engels on a regular basis as well.,8,1,868.1861509181449,college
Will a doctor lie for you??,"I screwed up and missed one class too many. I am about to fail and need to repeat the entire year unless I can prove one of my absences were due to medical reasons and show a doctors note. I know I could easily get a fake one but my professor is a very suspicious guy and I'm almost certain whatever note I give him he will actively try to prove its real or fake before trying to believe me. I'm pretty sure the only way i can get away with this is if i have a real doctor's note, so my question is: If i called up a real doctor and explained my situation to him/her honestly, what are the chances they will write a legit doctor's note for me to help me out?",17,0,869.720236566293,college
"I missed six religion classes, some minor assignments, and now I'm failing the class. What should I say to the prof in hopes of getting at least a D-?","The only thing we have left is the final, which is 25% of the grade. Our prof is very strict and unforgiving. We have three weeks of class left.",12,4,906.0266601774041,college
Why don't more people go to community college to get out of poverty? Isn't CC pretty cheap?,,20,2,949.9682458255522,college
"Is it a good idea to go through college slow, taking 2/3 classes a semester?","I have never been convinced of the value of talking classes. I am a computer science student and, not to sound arrogant, but I can learn most of the information they teach in one 1.5 hour class in 20 minutes if I just read the text book and do some exercises. In addition, it is always abstract and hard to connect with the ""real world"". 

I recently started working for a small startup and this coming fall semester, they are planning to hire me part-time. In addition, there is a side project I am working and would like to grow. 

Obviously taking 4/5 classes a semester will cause a lot of time constraints. 

I am aware that college will cost a lot of money the longer I stay because of tuition, but I also get a lot of benefits from staying in college, such as access to software and digital equipment as well as  the connections with professors and a large body of students.

I have a good hunch that if I take college slow, I will be able to support myself financially soon. 

What do you guys think? ",7,1,1175.3562203625893,college
ok what is the EASIEST major I can do,"Always struggled in school, especially math and doing homework. I need a 4 year degree to teach english abroad because I need a bachelors to get the visa. I'm already 23 and not even done with associates because Im not sure what to major in that would be the absolute easiest, any advice?",10,0,1183.8338592514783,college
So broke had to change the cereal to milk ratio...,,1,0,1310.9444958255522,college
One of my classmates who I see a lot is a minor and wants me to buy alcohol for him and his friends. What should I do?,"I just transferred to a Uni and haven't really made that many new friends yet, so I'm hesitant to say no. But on the other hand, I really don't want to be that guy for him. I've already had my share of drinking and partying in the past and I'm not looking to go back into that",18,1,1357.1444842514782,college
"I have government granted scholarships and loans that cover all of the tuition, however, I still owe $884 in lab fees and other things not including housing, meal, etc. Why?","$884 which will soon be $959 because of my $75 parking permit. I also know one is $145 which is for orientation. Besides parking and orientation, why would I be paying school fees if everything is *supposed* to be covered by the government? I can pay the money, but it will bring me to $2,200 in my bank account I use for school supplies, dorm groceries, outings, shopping, etc. How can I live off of $2,200 for the whole school year? I can't get a real job because I have to work a work study job. ",15,2,1548.379102307034,college
"Tips on How to Pick Your Major. Super insightful, very useful. From a student at Yale.",,2,0,1550.2465328625892,college
Anybody else fail their exams this year,"Sucks dohnit 

Edit: it's fucked up my whole summer",8,2,1579.8704911959226,college
Can someone give me the pros and cons of my top ten colleges?,"Just answer whichever one you can. I'm looking at getting a degree in Physics/Mathematics. More specifically Theoretical Physics. Thanks in advance!

1. Yale

2. MIT

3. Princeton

4. Harvard

5. Stanford

6. University of Texas at Austin

7. University of Michigan

8. University of Pennsylvania

9. Columbia

10. University of Chicago

EDIT: Yes, I realize these are selective colleges. I'm just trying to narrow down my list.",46,1,1891.078373140367,college
'Why I'm dropping out of college',,21,4,1962.2445884181448,college
Why the hell do so many of you advocate cheating?,That's what I've gathered from my previous thread. What the hell is the matter with you people?,7,0,2135.399310640367,college
Exempted from English 101?,"Hey Reddit, I'm an incoming Freshman at NC State Uni. 

When registering for classes, I was told (by my Advisor) that I already had an Eng101 credit. I never took an AP English or AP Language class in High School, and only scored a 35 on my ACT Reading/Writing. My advisor says that this is only the second time she has seen a Freshman English exemption in her ten years at the school.

Do you guys know of any reason why I might have been given an exemption? I'm not going to take it up with the school, as I've already been given an 'A' for the course. 

Should I try and take the class anyway so I'll be prepared for second year English? ",17,2,2265.3270652699966,college
Now I remember why I love my school...,,2,2,2544.0593685107374,college
"Once made my professor cry in class, Unintentionally","I was a Communication major at a mid sized university in Virginia.  This was my last semester in college and I was taking 18 credit hours to finish my degree in 4 years since I changed my major 4 times.  I had this particular professor for 3 classes, so I saw her everyday that semester.  She was really nice, extremely smart and understanding whenever I was late on an assignment or needed help understanding something.  One of my final classes was ""Argumentation,"" and she was the professor.  For the final exam in that class instead of taking an exam, we were paired in 2's and had a political debate with another team of 2.  Our topics were assigned to us and once we debated the rest of the classes voted to choose who the winner of the debate was.  My partner and I got assigned to argue FOR illegal immigration here in The U.S.  I'm actually against illegal immigration, so that made this debate a little more difficult for me.  Any way, the way the debate was set up, I open the debate with a five minute opening argument, the opposing team counters the argument, I argue again for 7 minutes, their team argue for another 14 minutes, and then my partner argues for 7 minutes, they make their closing 5 minute argument, the I close ours for 5 minutes.  Well, I choose to make our primary argument more of an ethical one.  Claiming that our country was built from immigration, Asian railroad workers, English businessmen coming because of religious persecution, Irish potatoe famine, as well as some economic pros of employing immigrants in The U.S.  I closed with a testimony I found from a man who came over illegally and created a business that now employs over 150 Americans.  The debate went really well, it actually ended up in a tie between us and the other team, which I felt was credible of an A or at the least a B.  So the next class session after that classes' debate, she was ""I want to address something that was went on in last week's debate."" At that point I'm like ohhhhhh fuuuck.  She says something along the lines of ""It was mentioned at all the immigrants came to America to better their lives,"" Then she starts uncontrollable weeping.  She proceeds with, ""Some immigrants were forced over against their will in chains and shackles by the same people that were 'claimed' to build our country. I think that argument came from an over-estimated sense of white privilege."" By this time everyone in the class has at least glanced at me one time.  My following class was with her as well, and she was a complete and total bitch to me the whole time.  She would barely let me speak without interrupting, and spoke to me with a very arrogant tone. A couple days later we got back our grades from that debate, our team failed and the opposing team got an A.  We tied the fucking debate and failed while the other team excelled. Her reasoning behind that was because making a moral argument in a political debate is a ""Red Herring"" and that's not what the project was about.  Politicians use red herring all the fucking time.  The point of the class was to teach us to argue, and I did that well considering half the class voted for us.  I finished that semester passing all of her classes, thank god.  I'd just like to note, I'm not racist in any sort of way what so ever, just didn't think about bring up something so fucking shameful in a debate that would hinder my own success in it.  

Just wanted to rant and share my story.  Let me know what you think.  Thanks for reading! 

EDIT: For the few that think I'm fabricating this story: goddamn. 

And for the few that actually read and offered reasonable advice, thank you. 

I was just sharing something that happened 2 years ago for fucks sake ",28,23,1315.2703407329595,college
The unbelievable things some Chinese students are doing to get into US colleges,,3,7,1692.2863476774041,college
1 homework 1 test left no added pressure or anything. Kinda wish I missed a point on the 1st homework!,,21,21,8.323326844070797,college
"Forgot to turn in group assignment, what do i do ?","Im currently in college, taking an accounting class, we are required to do group cases in which we spend maybe 2 weeks working on it & finally somone has to submit it at the end. I fucking forgot, & well there's no exceptions to late work & its worth 4-5% of grade, I dont know what to do, heeeeeelp, i have to send them a message in a bit telling them my shitty apology

UPDATE: we had a backup assignment turned in 2 days ago, although it was just a draft, we were still able to use it to get most of our credit ",19,6,1127.558998140367,college
I'm in a very complicated fafsa problem. Please help.,"My parents make 25k/year so if I file for fafsa I'll get a LOT of grants.

However, my parents live in a country outside the US and I live in the US with my brother who is also my legal guardian.

The problem is that my brother makes like 100k/year so if I include his income on my fafsa I'd be fucked for life. I'm really hoping that I only have to include my parents income despite not living with them.

EDIT; My brother is definitely my legal guardian. We even went to court because of that.",42,10,808.0133962885152,college
My friend’s grad cap,,5,0,510.651428696745,college
"How political correctness rules in America’s student 'safe spaces’; A student backlash against hearing words and ideas that oppose their own, citing emotional ""trauma"", is changing the culture of the American campus writes Ruth Sherlock, US Editor from Harvard University",,14,40,1418.065502770819,college
For those of you wanting to major in IT or computer science related fields hear me out first....,"If you want to pursue a successful career in IT or computer science, don't drink the cool-aid and waste 50k on a four year degree. 

* pick up a two year comp sci or CIT degree
* start collecting industry certifications and enter the industry ASAP.

Most of the universities will teach you the broad picture, not what the industry *wants*. You're expected to learn that on your own. trust me, IT employers care more about what specific skill or programming language you hold a certification for, than what school you went to. 

As a current senior. I genuinely regret not entering an associates program and working towards a CCIE certification on the side after high school. I'd have a solid job, a nice car, and almost zero debt by now


",10,0,1579.0556416597078,college
WE NEED THIS.,"Why don't we have a viable website for a online social gathering of students for individual universities? We need a web developer to create a website that brings students together for groups, selling textbooks, sharing notes, rating professors, etc. Does anyone know of any viable options?!?!? ",15,5,2017.1970768448932,college
"Something more people need to understand: Financial Aid is only meant to offset the cost of attendance, NOT cover it all.",That's all. ,2,6,2024.056891659708,college
Six Benefits of Attending a Community College,,14,5,2478.204218048597,college
Dealing with a very sociable roommate,"I'm a sophomore living in a double in the school dorms, since I had a decent experience last year. However, this year the school screwed up and never sent me the housing application until much later so I ended up having to be assigned a roommate with no input. So now I am one month into the semester and have some problems with living with him.

I'm an extreme introvert and like a quiet environment, hence why I spend the majority of my time hanging out at the library's quiet floor studying and watching youtube. But unlike last year, my roommate this year is much more sociable and it's really creating anxiety for me being in the room when he has people over. This is completely not his fault since he is still following the agreement we signed at the beginning of the semester. At the time I wanted to be fair and said it was fine for him to have people over and listen to music at a reasonable volume since I didn't want to preside over his habits. But now I am regretting it because I can't hear myself think in this room, and I am incredibly sensitive towards loud sounds. He listens to his music on a small sound system and brings people over to play video games and they just are shouting the entire time. I've been trying to ignore the noise with earplugs and blasting my own music in my headphones but I don't want to hurt my own hearing in the process of trying to create background noise for myself because sometimes he gets way too loud. I already try to spend all my time at the library and school clubs to avoid him. My roommate last year was great because he played video games with headphones like a considerate person so we got along great.

Right now he is listening to music and has a friend over and I can barely concentrate on my video games because all I hear is muffled music and laughing over my headphone's already high volume. But it's a weekend so it'd be completely unreasonable to ask him to tell his guest to leave. But on the other hand I really haven't felt comfortable in this room because I barely have free time to unwind in a quiet environment to watch some anime or play video games. So my question is, what do you suggest doing to deal with the noise levels when in the same room as someone else who likes music and having guests over? Should I just leave the room?

TL;DR: Roommate who isn't unreasonably loud is still giving me anxiety every time I am in the room.",8,4,403.8652597152635,college
"I find it ridiculous that it's okay to be ""naturally bad at math""","Thoughts? It's okay to not try for math just because ""I'm not naturally inclined for it and therefore I should do the absolute minimum to pass"". Obviously that isn't exactly what is said but you get my point. But if you switch ""math"" for something like English and imply ""I'm not very good at writing so instead of giving it my all, I'm just going to do the minimum to pass"", it is looked down on by others.",67,126,597.2917180485969,college
How can I be environmentally conscious and live in a dorm?,"So my school requires I live on campus for the first 3 years of my undergrad, which means I’m also required to buy the campus meal plan. I end up disposing so much plastic, between the meals on campus coming in disposable containers and most food to cook in my room comes in individual packaging. And on top of that there are very few vegan options. I haven’t been able to completely become vegan yet (it’s a big step) but for now I avoid factory farmed animal products which are everywhere here. What do you guys do to be as environmentally conscious as possible (even if it’s not related to food)?",7,4,393.39556064118943,college
Don't Major in Liberal Studies!! Trust me I know from experience! 😢,I graduated with a liberal studies degree mostly because I played College Football and was focused on that. But after my NFL dreams were crushed lol I found that a liberal studies degree is the equivalent to a high school diploma when trying to get a job lol So if your gonna go to college find a  major that you love and are passionate about and most importantly one that will get you a decent job to pay back all those loans!,9,0,620.3274356411895,college
PSA: College Employees Legally Bared from Explaining Book Purchases,"So, I just learned from my professor friend that they are legally bared from telling their students about any method to buy a textbook other than their campus store. 

That's frankly horrible and extortionist...and I think everyone needs to know.

Amazon, Chegg (another website), and even direct purchase from the books publisher are all alternate options in case you wanted a few.",11,5,641.1827134189672,college
PLS HELP ME DECIDE COLLEGE BY TOMORROW,"Please help me decide Reddit, I'm so torn!

Okay so I just found out I got into UVA, (originally my first choice), but I already had to put my deposit down for William & Mary, the school I'm def leaning towards now. I've got a lot of pros and cons for both but can I have some objective feedback on both colleges? I seriously cannot decide and I'm kinda panicking haha sos!",12,4,1253.8845305485968,college
WTF taking attendance in college!?,"All my professors are taking attending and saying its to help with student retention.  Even in my 400 level class my prof is taking attendance.

It's sort of ridiculous honestly. They have no problem getting incoming freshman though this years class is supposed to be 50% larger than last years.

This turned into a rant lol.

Does anyone else's college take attendance",17,0,1512.9831532337819,college
The terrifying beauty standards pre-rush week California sorority girls have to adhere to if they want to remain popular,,7,3,1732.1203870300783,college
Unemployment and Underemployment amongst college graduates,"Throughout my college years (still in college btw), I've been hearing stories (from friends and the internet) about how college graduates are graduating without jobs or working as a barista at Starbucks with a masters degree. In many of these cases, it is hard to get out of these jobs once you are working in them, especially after graduating college. 

I think that a majority of these articles regarding graduate underemployment/unemployment are completely missing the point. In my opinion, it isn't really about the economy or jobs being scarce. It all boils down to the fact that most students major in fields like liberal arts, gender studies, philosophy, etc do so without even doing their research on potential career prospects or even whether or not their degree is in demand. Then when they can not find a job 2 years after graduating, they complain about how unfair the job market is or blame their school for not helping them find a job. Well guess what? The job market isn't fair and employers want what they want, a relevant degree with relevant work experience. How about doing your research on which fields are in demand, then decide from there whether or not you want to go to college. I would hate to see you waste thousands of dollars or be drowning in debt which they would have next to no chance of completely paying it off. 

My friend's cousin graduated from college 5 years ago with a bachelors degree in gender studies and a minor in liberal arts. She is currently living at home with her parents at 27 years old, working at a coffee shop and has 150k in student loan debt. I also know of someone whom I went to high school with can't find a job with her hospitality degree. 

I was reading an online news article titled, ""More than 4 in 5 students graduate without a job. How can colleges change that?"" At first I thought that it was about the fact that colleges need to do more to help students prepare for finding jobs and networking. Which is true since the entry level-market has drastically changed. However, I am willing to bet that a majority of those 80% of graduating seniors without jobs, majored in fields yielding little to no job prospects. In my opinion, this is an important point that this article (along with several others) leaves out.

My point is that, unless you want to become a teacher or professor within those fields, you should probably study those subjects in your free time whilst majoring in something useful, (like engineering, accounting, nursing, etc), otherwise you're just wasting your time in college. 

We can argue about how interesting and intellectually stimulating liberal arts subjects are, but the fact of the matter is that they will most likely not lead to a job other than waiting tables. You can call me an anti-intellectualist or sexist, but I am basically pointing out reality. Not all degrees are created equal. ",52,20,1226.13067638193,college
Finals,,0,6,2513.6683152708188,college
New r/college-only awards,"Either because I was bored/curious or because you need to spend your money on reddit coins rather than on books and access codes, I've created three new r/college specific reddit awards: Cum Laude (500 coins), Magna Cum Laude (1000 coins), and Summa Cum Laude (2000 coins).  These are options for any post in r/college and will be available along with the standard silver/gold/platinum awards you can choose from.

When you give one of these awards, it puts coins in a r/college community kitty.  Mods can spend those coins to give out mod-only awards that in turn grant reddit premium upon the recipient.

I don't know, I just didn't want us to be left out.  Award them, don't award them, whatever.  Have fun, and procrastinate away.

&#x200B;

PS - let me know if you've got ideas on how to do this more smarter or with prettier pictures or funnier awards.",0,4,52.15517869674497,college
Does anyone else here attend a college?,I swear I feel like I’m the only one ,3,0,197.18096573378202,college
If you are called to either the Dean's office or Title IX Staff office or get an email re a Title IX allegation....,"**DO NOT BELIEVE** that these people will protect you or give you due process.

**DO NOT TALK TO ANY OF THEM** without first consulting with your parents and a Title IX attorney.  A regular attorney is not familiar with Title IX.  

**If ANYONE in the college administration says something to you to the effect that:**

 *""I know your parents have your best interest in mind and that they have done a lot to help you before you turned age 18.  I'm sure they will continue to advise and help you throughout your life.  But, you are 18 \[or whatever age\] now and what you want to tell me \[us\] is really up to you and no one else.  You don't \[shouldn't\] have to talk to anyone else about this for advise.  Your parents may or may not agree with what you think is the best for you.  I can give you the name of a confidential adviser on campus that you can speak with, and I can provide you more time to respond to the Title IX sexual misconduct allegations,""*

**DON""T BELIEVE THEM!**  They are trying to trap you into admitting that you've done something wrong.  You probably haven't, but the Title IX process on college campuses is nothing short of medieval.  

**They will destroy your academic career at the slightly allegation.**

**You will immediately be kicked out of dorms, off campus, subjected to no-contact orders, suspended or expelled from college.**

**They will not care whether you have a medical or other disability.**

**They will not care if you have telephone, message, video, or third-party eye-witness proof that you've done nothing wrong.**

***YOU NEED TO CONTACT YOUR PARENTS AND A TITLE IX ATTORNEY ASAP!  THIS IS NOT A DRILL!  THIS IS YOUR FUTURE!***

IF you get kicked out of school because of a Title IX allegation, you will have to report this on most applications to other colleges.

**YOUR COLLEGE MAY EVEN REFER THE MATTER DIRECTLY TO THE LOCAL POLICE!**

**DON'T DELETE ANY PROOF - TELEPHONE TEXTS, OTHER TEXTS, EMAILS, VOICE MAILS.**  Your college will automatically accuse you of deleting evidence.

# Your parents and a Title IX attorney will help you get through this.  There are groups out there who support accused students.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",3,4,286.8261509189672,college
I often wonder; do universities/colleges define who you are?,"That is if one goes to the most expensive college in the U.S. (abroad) to someone who goes to another college but not an Ivy League or an expensive one.   


How do you feel? ",23,3,430.488616196745,college
Our current political climate scares me.,"College campuses have always been breeding grounds for protest and all things that are politically charged. I’m honestly kind of scared to start in the fall given our current political climate. It’s like if I say the wrong thing during a class debate or something, I’m done for. ",7,0,457.9043685115598,college
Admission Rescinded?,"Okay, so, I’m probably about to sound like an idiot:
I applied to my dream university at the end of the first semester of my senior year, and got in. I had all A’s and a high B. Well, I’ve graduated high school now. My final transcript shows that I maintained my A grades, but that B grade dropped two points, so now I have a low B. What’s the likelihood that my admission to this university will be rescinded? Am I being ridiculous?",5,0,498.0583268448931,college
"no one goes to college for an education, they go for the degree. change my mind.",,21,0,526.0679101782265,college
Parents won't let me go to college in the US because they're not top universities. How do I convince them that the ones I got into are worth it.,"So I applied to UCB,UCLA, UCSC, UCD, McMaster University, University of Waterloo and University of Ottawa. I got an acceptance from UCSC and waitlisted for UCD. My parents don't think that UCSC or UCD are worth the $58K a year(I'm Canadian) and would rather I go to one of my Canadian unis (I am still waiting for any offers from them). They prefer Canada over the US firstly, because its much cheaper $18K a year compared to $58K a year and secondly, they believe the US is too dangerous (because of all the news about shootings). I've looked at UCSC for a while now and really want to go how do I convince my parents its worth it? (I'm applying for Computer Science btw).",24,2,561.2598314745227,college
The World's Most Exclusive University Accepts Less Than 1.5 Percent of Applicants,,2,0,659.0588708263746,college
Not a pissing contest. How much would you drink on a night out?,I know I drink too much but I want to know how much. ,15,3,706.4699356411894,college
"I just cheated on a placement test for college...idk what I was thinking, I feel so bad now..","Hello. So I am an incoming freshman and I had to take a physics placement test for the college that I am going to.

The test was basically to see if I should be in the regular physics class which goes straight into physics topics, meaning I'll graduate on time, or go into an introductory physics class which teaches the mathematical aspects first and possibly not graduate on time or I'll just have to cram in classes over the summer.

I am pretty good at math, I got a 5 on the calculus BC AP test and I got an A in my honors physics class. My school didn't offer AP physics or anything, I got the bare bones.

Here's the situation:

The physics test was an online test, no time limit whatsoever and I needed to score a 24/32 to pass. Now this is just BEGGING for people to cheat. And I took the bait...

I pretty much never learned vectors for example in my physics class and this test was FILLED with them, so you know what I did? I literally copied and pasted the question onto google and 90% of the time, a question incredibly similar to that one came up and I just followed what they did. 

I ended up taking 3 hours to do a 32 problem test (since I looked up almost all the questions to make sure they were all right) and I passed with an almost perfect score of 31/32.

Now I'm basically guaranteed into the regular physics class and I feel so bad, I feel like I'll get karma and fail the regular physics class now...

Should I just suck it up and take the regular physics class? I know I am smart and I am able to handle hard work loads but just the fact that I never learned a lot of the stuff on that placement test makes me feel like crap. 

Again, I was so dumb and now idk what to do. I was so fixated on passing so I would graduate earlier, but that's stupid because if I end up failing the class as a result that would be even worse.

Should I just tell my counselor that I want to switch to introductory physics? But then she'll wonder why I would do that if I got an almost perfect on the placement test...

Anyways, I'm sorry, I won't be surprised if this post gets downvoted to oblivion but I've accepted that what I did was wrong and if anyone could give me some advice I'd greatly appreciate it.

Thanks

",22,3,1166.884380085634,college
"Counselling services at college have doubled because millennials are having 'emotional crises over everyday life', psychologist claim.",,8,2,1451.1076439745227,college
Seriously fuck college,This shit sucks. So much money that i have to pay even tho I have financial aid. We have to figure out what we want to do for the rest of our lives at such a young age. If you really arent sure what you want to do you will change your major many of times and have to pay a shit ton of money for each class. Fuck school... Make that shit free. I really dont get it. They want us to be educated but they make that shit cost so much.,6,0,1477.1572736041524,college
I just worked 170 hours in 2 weeks from running College orientation and a concert for thousands. Came home to this.,,1,3,1488.7227018448932,college
"Thought I'd share a picture of my beautiful campus, here at Millersville University",,3,3,1661.2790560115598,college
An Honest College Rejection Letter,,3,0,1666.023905548597,college
"When choosing a computer for college is Mac or PC better? Which model is best? Any advice is welcome, thanks.",,25,3,1965.0593337893376,college
hooray for the DREAM ACT! NOW i have questions!,"i found out i was able to get grants now! c,: this completely changed my plans about studying in mexico.
now my dream school is cal state san fransico! hopefully ill be able to get into the winter term but i also have a few questions maybe someone here can help me.

 during my highschool my overall gpa turned out to be 3.20 (so i qualify for cal gant a) my moms income is 14,000 a year D: any estimates of how much this grant will give me?

also the average of cal state san francisco? without room and board(planning to rent an apartment)

would i just be better going to uc santa cruz since the grant's amount will increase if i go to a UC? what would come out cheaper for me?",18,2,2463.6121347152634,college
Happy homecoming,,3,3,2553.3773777708193,college
High paying job recommendations?,My last job was at the Cheesecake Factory paying $10.50 (no tips) but I couldn't get it to transfer over due to lack of space. What are some recommendations? I've been looking like crazy and got turned down three times now.,5,0,12.909634715263492,college
I fucking got caught cheating on my math test,"It was out of 50 points, and i had 48 of them. i didn’t know the last question, so i tried to google it fast and got caught and have a referral. i know it’s dumb, i didn’t come here to get yelled at. i just want to know if colleges will see this, and how serious it will affect me",6,0,14.83784073378201,college
Triple Major?,"I plan on triple majoring in college: Aerospace Engineering, English, and Philosophy. Aerospace for stability and English and Philosophy are items I genuinely enjoy and while they are in the same department and may seem redundant, I believe they teach fundamentally different things and help me develop skills that will be beneficial to me in the long run. Would this plan of action be advisable?",14,0,29.35892869674497,college
How many percent of Ivy League students cheat?,,3,0,39.653974993041274,college
How do you stop feeling insignificant when your a freshman in a class primarily made of upperclassmen,I'm taking a writing course and calc 3 and I have a feeling I'll be really small and feel useless when I'm in the class,4,0,43.130838418967194,college
Turned off by colleges with frats - are they really that bad?,"As I'm researching colleges, I'm finding that a lot of them - like USC, Vanderbilt, and Cornell - seem to have a strong emphasis on this ""Greek life"" thing. Mostly I'm reading the Unigo reviews and there's a lot of talk about heavy partying, rich kids, and frats/sororities.

To me (and lots of articles I find online), frats seem like cults. There's news on hazing deaths, being permanently shunned for leaving, rigid cliques, etc. I'm not big on the party life when it comes to college so frats are really turning me off.

Is there something I'm missing? Am I just exaggerating things? When I thought of college, I thought of smart, diverse people doing smart, diverse stuff - not wealthy party-goers living the Greek life.",10,0,46.082285178226456,college
I missed out on the college experience. How do I best prepare for a lonely life?,,10,0,72.86984304859682,college
Is 3.9 GPA enough to earn me a master's scholarship? (EE),,4,0,84.0426671226709,college
unsure where to post this," due to life circumstances , i had to stop going to collage after racking up 40 k in debt trying to play dad and what not i finally got it all ,knocked down to 1200 in 7 years and a few medical set backs and had to pay those bills before going back i want to go back my thing is when i had a car wreck my last semster i went i could not continue due to injurys and i had to miss two huge tests so i owe my college 630usd now my question is can i get a student loan to cover the years worth of tution as well as cover the 600 or so i can go back? if so how do i go a about doing that this isnt the only question, another is would you move to a city where cost of living is higher but collage is slightly cheaper then the other or one where the collage is higher but rent ect is cheaper as well?",4,0,88.52705369674497,college
Is it a bad idea to go to two universities at once?,"Hello reddit readers, 

I'm thinking about going to another university while going to the one that I'm at (Uni 1). The second university(Uni 2), though not sure how I even qualified to get admitted,  is very prestigious; Amelia Earhart, Neill Armstrong (the first man on the moon), and many Nobel Prize winners went there. University 1 won't let me double major but will let me go to another university while I attend it. I have financial aid for university  1, but obviously not for university  2. I can afford to be paying out of pocket for University 2. It's just... I went to church today and they preached about not having to work two jobs. I want to work 2 jobs for economical reasons.  I asked my friend and my dad for advice and they think I should go for it. They really support my decision to go to two schools because the second is so great and the first I have additional funding, besides financial aid, to cover it.

Thank you in advance, 

Pleaselearn21.

Edit: F.Y.I. I have straight As in university 1.",6,0,95.16354675230052,college
"I'm smart but I went through a lot in highschool, is there anyway I can make up for this in my applications?",Freshman year I was homeless and my parents divorced. I kept a 3.0 but I was generally a wreck. Sophomore year I was still homeless but things were calmer and I got a 3.3. This year my mom got a house and I got a 3.9. I'm in IB and my ACT is a 31 but I still feel like good colleges won't think twice about me and I don't know what to do about that.,5,0,99.10725045600424,college
I’m a stem graduate that fully supports those who do not wish to pursue the traditionally 4 year route. Am I normal?,"I know sometimes stem graduates can be rather preachy and just tell everyone to jump into stem b/c $$$$. But after some life experience (and I’m currently at an unrelated job) I’ve come to realize that the STEM or bust mentality is a very arrogant, flawed, black and white worldview. Of course I definitely encourage growing your skills and your expansion whichever path you choose (and for crying out loud get your GED) but I’ve come to really dislike the ‘college is a must’ mentality I was brought up with.",7,0,100.36660230785608,college
What’s the craziest academic story you’ve ever heard?,"For example: people getting caught cheating, people dropping out with a semester left, procrastination stories, etc... just some crazy stories relating to academia haha.",5,0,119.71478517822646,college
Should a student incorporate naps in their college schedule?,I was wondering how you students felt about naps. Do they increase productivity or is it just wasted time? How long should the nap be 30 minute an hour?,10,0,121.13316480785608,college
Can someone please tell me why anyone would,Constantly give me unsolicited advice about my school of choice. It's escalating now. My coworker will bring up the topic and then proceed to tell me how I should really think about why I wanna go and if I'm being true to myself. And if saying I graduated from such and such is worth all the loans. In the same breath she will say how she's not truth to deter me from going. Wtf then what are you doing sewing seeds of doubt? I just ignored her. I don't get it. Why does she care what I do with my life. I don't care what she does with hers.,3,0,121.93272499304126,college
Should I major in English?,"I'm not 100% sure if this is where this is the right place to post this, but I'm a sophomore in high school right now and lately, I've been thinking a lot about what to pursue as a career. So as you can see in the title, is English a good major? I chose English because 1) it's the only subject I get straight A's in, 2) I'm interested in journalism & photography and 3) I just really enjoy writing in general.",6,0,121.99840786341164,college
Questions regarding Health Science major,"Hello, 

I am wanting to pursue a major in health studies and am confused on the difference between a couple of Health Studies major. Specifically, Health studies: Community health education and Health studies: Health Science. I am not sure if health science is only encouraged for pre- professions or not. I am pursing a pre profession major, Does anyone know what types of jobs that are available for these majors upon getting a bachelors degree?",3,0,122.97523656711535,college
Problem with student loan for a international student,I am a student how is at the last year of his high school. And I am planning on attending a college in united states but there fees are way out of my bugut. So i decided to apply for student loan but there is no one as my cosigner in us is there any work around this problem?,6,0,124.26361619674496,college
Dismissed. Ex FWB turned counsellor. Advice?,"Hey guys! A bit of a background on my situation. I studied for 2 semesters in university. Due to reasons I'm not gonna mention my first semester wasn't that great and I was put on probation. Second was going well until I stopped going to classes and my GPA got really bad. I was planning to take a semester off and my leave got approved but I then realise that I've been dismissed.

Getting kicked out was one of the hardest things I went through. This was my dream college, everything..I wasn't allowed to apply again for a year. I do want to apply for Spring 2020. To get in i apparently need to have ""proof"" that I'm a disciplined person and that i'd do well in classes. I need 2-3 letters of recommendation which I'll probably have from all the volunteering I've done. I'll also need to write a letter about what I've been up to during the time that I was away. Any tips?

The thing that's stressing me out is that my previous FWB has just become an admission counsellor (he's one of 6). And he's great but it's just awkward since none of friends really know that I was dismissed. He might even take my interview(worst case scenario). I just feel really stressed and like a failure at times..I am ready for college but  it's a small campus in europe and I really feel ashamed that I've failed..any advice?",2,0,124.34631295600424,college
What are your summer plans?,,11,0,133.42383610415237,college
Mastering Physics access code?,"Would anyone here happen to have an unused code for Mastering Physics that corresponds to the Knight, College Physics: A Strategic Approach 4th Ed textbook? Thanks so much!",0,0,134.10149814118944,college
Degree in Nuclear Physics,"So apparently, Homer Simpson has a degree in Nuclear Physics from Springfield University.

On a scale of 1 (easiest) to 10 (hardest), how hard is it to acquire one in real life compared to other degrees?",2,0,134.8208268448931,college
"Incoming freshman, should I add a class?","Incoming Fall 19' Community College Freshman, so far my schedule looks like

&#x200B;

 Fundamentals/Public Speaking 3.008/12 - 12/17W4:10pm-7:00pm

ENGL001College Reading & Composition 4.008/12 - 12/17MW12:10pm-2:00pm

Federal, State and Local Govt 3.008/12 - 12/17MW10:45am-12:00pm

General Psychology 3.008/12 - 12/17F8:10am-11:00am

&#x200B;

I'm a Poli Sci Major, doing my two years to transfer to a state school, and then hopefully an advanced degree. However, I did not add an Intro To Stats 21 course for this semester out of fear too much work. It would put me at 17 units, and math has never been my strong suit. Summer classes are full, and was hoping to do it next summer as my Winter semester doesn't have a math requirement.

&#x200B;

My question is: Was this unwise to not add this math class? I've heard my major/classes are far from hard, and I don't want to waste any opportunities or risk financial aid or not looking like I challenged myself enough in college, as I do need to transfer to rather prestigious schools in the near future

&#x200B;

I also don't want to fail a class because I overloaded myself

&#x200B;

SOS",2,0,134.86868564118942,college
Are there any accredited online platforms that are not paced like traditional college?,"I thought of this when I was on the way to work this morning. I have used Udemy before to learn things like web development and design, but the platform is not accredited. Is there an accredited platform that operates similarly, where you watch and learn whenever you want without the stresses of deadlines and due dates?",5,0,140.55250508563387,college
Is history a useless major?,,11,0,160.86053749304128,college
Is it possible to succeed in college with a low IQ?,"I wasn’t a smart student in high school. I got a 3.4 GPA but that was with not missing a day of school and turning in every assignment. I’m bad at test taking. I scored a 20 on my ACT. 

In addition I have learning disabilities that make school hard. I wasn’t a fluent reader until middle school due to having undiagnosed ADHD and dyslexia. 

I keep going to my professors office hours and still my results are not showing. Especially on my exams. My professors don’t give study guides. It’s all tests with no homework or extra practice problems. Im starting to think that if I go to all my classes, do all my homework and still get poor grades. I think that it’s an issue of intelligence or underpreparation and not work ethic. 

I’m starting to think that I was accepted into college by mistake. Does anyone have any suggestions on how to improve?",8,0,171.41618564118943,college
"Is taking Calculus a bad idea if I ""need"" it?","My main goal is to become a M.D. I'm currently taking the rest of my prerequisites over the fall to transfer as a Biology major to a bachelor's program which requires Calculus. Over the fall, I'm taking Biology 1 + Lab (comes easy to me), Chemistry 1 + Lab with a badly rated teacher, and Spanish 1. Should I add Calculus 1 + Lab? It seems like I need it for my major. If it makes the semester hell, I want to know if it's worth it or if they'll accept my transfer regardless. Or would it be better to transfer as a Psychology major, take Calculus, and then change major if that's even a thing?",4,0,192.98050277081904,college
How is a college workload different from a year of taking AP classes?,"So collegeboard states how ap is like taking a college rigor class, but I do feel as if some of the classes are quite shallow in their depth of instruction and topics covered (looking at you, biology and physics 2). Are the tests in college significantly harder? Are the lectures more thorough in college instead of simply cramming for an ap test? 

Essentially how comparable are the two, and what are the differences?",15,0,200.0163129560042,college
Is there a college degree related to the studies of statistics without Math involved?,Is it related to the Math course? How much Math is incorporated in the field?,28,0,219.27216943748573,college
Y2kids of Reddit - what are the upsides and downsides of being born in the year 2000?,,0,0,229.61238934489313,college
Can I get CAL GRANT after transferring?,"So I transferred to UCSD last year from community college. I met with financial aid multiple times before enrollment and asked about all of the programs I could be eligible for, as well as my community college financial aid office. Neither of them informed me of the Cal Grant and that as a transfer student I could apply for it, which if I had been informed of it, I would have qualified for it. This negligence not only caused me to take out loans, but has also put heavy financial stress on my life as a student. I can only imagine this information was intentionally withheld seeing as I mentioned I was a transfer student several times when talking to both college financial aid offices. They both pointed me toward the FAFSA but neglected to inform me of the Cal Grant which would have saved me a great deal of costs. And finally, as I'm applying to a master's program that also gives me a teaching credential I could have had financial aid in my graduate studies for an extra year if I had been informed of Cal Grant. Does anyone have any advice? Is a lawsuit possible? ",3,0,233.13222730785608,college
"I got suspended from a university for unsatisfactory term gpa (my cumulative is 4.0), and they won’t stop calling my phone.",Did anyone have an experience like this? I’m not sure what it’s about. I already paid for everything. ,13,0,241.99671804859682,college
The struggle of a modern sunchild.,"When you're young. It's easy to dream of a beautiful world. Far away lands with mysterious cultures, foods and interesting history's.

It feels like it becomes harder as we get older to understand where to put our efforts in place. Which battles of the mind, heart and, body are worth the toil of the soul?

Ive spent years in fruitless efforts. Doing jobs without pay for the joy of them. Hitchhiking, backpacking across our beautiful country. 

In my last 13 years.. I had the unique opportunity to veiw some of the most beautiful and horrific things as a young man i could ever imagine. 

My desire to travel hasn't subsided but finances are a harsh reality. Having the luxury of having been to 46 state's met their people. Learned to Sail, Fish and live off the land. 

I am not the sharpest nail in the bottom of junkdrawer.. But, hitting 30 i started realizing im 80k dollars in debt between bills and student loans from 8 years ago. i have spent almost half my life walking up to strangers to ask for daywork or food but, have failed to setup a careerpath for my future. Preferably that would allow me to earn the money to purchase a 50' sailboat and earn money to repay my debts and then travel somehow earning a living.

I keep thinking i dont want to beg, hussle or grind. I dont wanna sell crystals on lott just to make a dollar to get by. For once it would be nice to pull my own weight in society. For the first time in my entire life i am attending old court cases and working twords a better tomorrow. I spent 10 years avoiding police now ive been able to look them in the eyes without fear.

I am usually full of ideas but, consistantly being underpressure and attempting to help the people you love can be emotionally taxing. Without getting into too many detail. I have been learning that we cant always help the people we love no matter how hard we try.

So why post this here on reddit? Ive spent 13 years on street corners from Seattle to La and, Colorado to Florida. Talking with strangers to solve my problems. I dont have a support system that is capable of helping direct my focus. So do what you know right?

Im looking for a Career that would let me interact with people individually and in groups.
 Travel the world to exotic places and/or allow me to work over the internet so i could travel of my own accord.

I dont want to get rich, i want to enjoy my life without being a societal burden. If anyone has ideas how to attend college in washington state while you have student loans in default and no current income. 

Or leads on a travel based job my fiance and i could be trained for.. Please let me know. I feel like the only bad question is one you were afraid to ask. 

Thankyou for your time",6,0,257.7914518448931,college
Writing my Undergraduate Thesis for English Lit.,"I had a rough 2018 and it really affected how I studied for university (especially now that I'm wholly self-directed).

Me and my supervisor talked a great deal about the ideas I wanted to put into the thesis. And I thought about everything over the past year. From society to evolution to gynaecology.

And now I've finally put pen to paper (figuratively) and have began writing my thesis. But after doing the first 13 percent of the essay, I thought it was hilarious that my thesis is starting to look like a manifesto.

I'm actually considering giving it the title of ""A Manifesto"" or something similar. It's basically turned from an analysis of *fucked up* novels as me and my supervisor discussed into a broad explanation of why society needs to be *H E C C I N wrecked*

I don't know. Is there any real issues with writing a manifesto as a thesis? With my current writing style I've secured straight Distinctions for my essays, and I plan to graduate with second class honours (I've accepted I'm not a HD student).

Also... Does anybody get unreasonably horny from writing essays? It's literally just so much mental stimulation that I want to go to pound town. ",2,0,276.60282915970794,college
What should I do during my final year in high school?,"Hi, I’m an international student and I’ll be studying in the US next year. I’ll be studying math and computer science.

I keep seeing posts where people say their scores suddenly dropped after starting college, which is phenomenon I heard quite frequently over the past year.

What should I do now to minimise that drop? Or even eliminate that decrease?

I’m sorry, but please don’t tell me to enjoy my time with friends and family. I’m already doing plenty of that.

Thank you!
",9,0,292.7941949004487,college
Juniors in college will you be graduating in 4 yrs or more,"Im upset because I wont be graduating on time because i set out a semster when I was moving to new state and city. I never took summer class during my times and I change my major my sophomore junior year.  The way this small ass university is set up I cant take what I nee, I have to wait either fall or spring.",12,0,300.16725045600424,college
Is there any FREE online courses ONLINE?,,7,0,305.0761624930413,college
"""What's your school/major (potential, current, or former)?"" Thread?","I'll start. Belmont Abbey College in Belmont, NC, USA. Studying Biology and Theology.",5,0,310.06086156711535,college
Why the Number of Hours You Spend Studying Means Nothing,,3,0,310.9185699004487,college
I’m a horrible test taker,"Especially in my science classes! I really want to get an A in at least one of my science classes but I keep getting B’s, thankfully because my HW assignments hold up my bad test scores. Every time I get to exam time no matter how much I think I’ve prepped, the questions always seem much more complex, maybe in the wording used, than what is taught. Also every time I try to search up ways to study online it’s always the same thing, “repetition, flash cards, predict test questions,” but no one really tells you how to do it. Any good test takers out there who can explain to me how they ace tests? Like what’s the secret formula? ",7,0,314.8539749930413,college
I have a C+ in German as my semester one grade. Freshman in high school.,"I haven’t taken finals yet but given they’ll be 15% it won’t be salvageable. Is it ok to have one C+ in my transcript? I’m super worried about it, this is my first C. I’m a freshman in HS but will that C+ ruin my chances? ",11,0,315.06995878933753,college
If you are a late college bloomer (over 22 y/o) then this is your chance..,,0,0,322.66920647452275,college
A guide for new students,"Things I wish I knew or I wish I had done as told. (Some of these may be obvious in this case sorry for that)

&#x200B;

1. Attend classes. There is no other way to see what your teacher prefers and what may be on exams. Books are good too, but sometimes you can understand better from notes. Sometimes teachers upload their notes on internet, but they may lack the answers from exercises, which were solved in class. Plus, how will people know you exist if you don't show up?

&#x200B;

2. Even if you feel depressed/tired/bored make an effort to show up. There may be lessons that are supposed to last 3 hours, but in reality last even 1 hour, because the teacher wants a break too. A coffe makes lesson better (if you dirnk coffee).

&#x200B;

3. If you miss one class, or two, get the notes as soon as you can form someone. If you try to attend but end up going to half lectures, it is possible that you will lack half of the taught material, which will lead to not having the proper material to study at exams.Half notes won't make sensecompared to all notes.

&#x200B;

4. Try to find old exam sheets from each teacher. If you manage two get at least two or three, you may notice what subjects the teacher has icluded on exam sheet more than once. Usually each perosn has favorite subjects they think are important to know in order to pass. You may be surprised sometimes to see that the teacher copies the same exam sheet each year (this may not happen in a respected university, I have seen it happen in mine though).

&#x200B;

5.If you have classes that unclude labs ( or other type of practical classes), make sure to pass these at the time they are taught. Usually it is easier to re-attend a theoretical lesson taught on a auditorium, rahter than lab classes which have limited amount of students that can participate and limited resources.

&#x200B;

6. Don't be disrespectful to any teacher (unless they have wronged you) or show obvious disrespect for their class. There will come a day you will need recommendation letters, so make sure at least they know you. Having teachers that know you shhow interest to their class will make it more likely to get you recommendation letters.

&#x200B;

7. Sititng in front rows can help understand better and see the board better.

&#x200B;

8. Usually if you help classmates, they will be more willing to help you (or not if they are competitive). You can't always do everything on your own.

&#x200B;

9. Older students doing a second degree can also be helpful. Befriending them can mean that you can be on a team with them (usually teachers tend to like them), they can be more responsible (thus deliver projects on time, so you know you teamed up with someone that will not show up with no work) or they can explain things you may not understand, if they happen to know. (If you happen to be friends with them, Idon't mean befriending them just to have a good team, this is shady, and of course young students can be responsible).

&#x200B;

10. If it is the first time living alone managing money and bills, it is tempting to spend your whole monthly amount on alcohol, but you will need food and tickets for bus.Try to plan  what you will need during the month. If you go out late, always try to have money for taxi, because you never know what happens. Also always keep on side money to go out, because a new group of people may approach you and ask to hangout you will have to deny if you are already broke.

&#x200B;

11. What you avoid to study now, will haunt you in the future. 

&#x200B;

12. Sometimes, you may not attend, or study because you need a break. Sometimes teachers change or retire, so the new teacher may me more srtict than the old one, or terrible at teaching, only for you to realise it was easier to pass the exams with the old one. You never know what happens.

&#x200B;

13. Some lessons may be abolished to be replaced with new ones if the curriculum changes. If you are unlacky to get caught between a change like this, if you had not attended and the lesson is no more taught, but still have to pass it you are screwed, or have to find notes. In this case, having had attendedwould have helped.

&#x200B;
14. Always check on emails and announcements. ",0,0,323.98828054859683,college
Urgent: Professor still hasn't responded to my request for an extension for lab due tomorrow,"I barely have time to write this post so I'll keep it brief: 

I have a CS project due tomorrow, we have one due each week.  Last Thursday, my eye starting swelling up and until yesterday my vision was so bad over the weekend that I would get headaches looking at anything and I couldn't get much work done.  My professor said If I needed anything over the weekend for the project I should just send out an email.  So I emailed my CS professor yesterday morning explaining what had happened and that I couldn't see until that morning and asked if I could have a 24 hour extension to finish my project.  However he still hasn't responded and he just sent an email to our class saying that the submission folder for the lab had been opened so It's clear that he is ignoring my email.  

Today It swelled up again so I went to my school's health center and it turns out its some sort of serious allergic reaction although we do not know what to.  I've been in serious pain today but I've been trying to finish the lab by the midnight deadline tonight and while I've made progress, I'm not going to finish it.  I know if I had an extra day I could have it working properly.  I don't know what I should do. I feel like I have a good reason to be asking for extra time but he hasn't even acknowledged my request.  I have never asked for an extension in college before until today.  I asked my Gov professor this morning if I can have an extra day to finish my essay and he said I absolutely could.  

My Dean knows me very well, should I reach out to him request his approval for a health-related extension?  I really can't afford a bad grade on this lab but do I even have another option here?  I would feel bad about going behind my professors back but he hasn't even acknowledged my request and I'm so short on time now I don't know what to do.",6,0,338.92759767822645,college
Lazy and Dickish Professor,"I'm sure something similar to this post has been done many times here, but I wanted to gain perspectives from other college students/grads about what to do with a shitty professor.

&#x200B;

I have a political science professor who's been teaching at my school for about 5 years, so I'm not sure if he has tenure but he is considered by the department to be the ""expert"" in his particular field so I'm worried he may indeed be tenured. Unfortunately, he is an extremely lazy and insensitive professor. I've actually decided to start keeping track of his poor actions over the last week or so, and hopefully I can build a legitimate case for the administration to at least look at his teaching.

&#x200B;

My first problem with him is that he is extremely insensitive and racist. Here are a few examples of his insensitivity and rudeness:

\- Said the Trail of Tears was ""very cool""

\- Talked about examples of workers' rights violations against women (i.e. in developing nations many women are simply fired for being pregnant), which is certainly an important issue, but then goes on to claim that the ""goal of capitalism"" is to exploit and abuse women

\- Following poor overall grades on the midterm, he joked that ""if you're feeling dismayed about the results, don't jump off a building."" This is particularly a sore spot as a student at my university committed suicide by jumping off a building earlier in the semester, yet he didn't apologize for this horrible comment.

\- When watching videos about child miners in developing nations, who develop severe health problems, face daily danger, and often die young, he said their situation was ""kinda funny""

I've only had this professor for about half of a semester and this is just what I can vividly remember and marked down.

&#x200B;

The professor is also extremely lazy:

\- Our classes last 75 minutes each, and for the last two classes I decided to keep track of how much time we actually spent learning information and taking notes. I intend to keep this up, since both classes I kept track of consisted of around 20 minutes each of legitimate class while the other 110-ish minutes were spent listening to some story about his family or watching videos that have little to do with the course material.

\- Our professor assigned a significant research paper and, despite multiple students (including myself) imploring him to post the rubric online or provide access to it well in advance of the paper, he declined to do so until 5 days before this 10-page paper was due. We are required to meet with a librarian to check out books, etc. so this was especially irksome.

\- He seems to say something along the lines of ""I don't know how we got behind"" in the curriculum each class - gee, I wonder?

\- He has assigned four homework assignments over the course of the semester. He has graded and returned zero.

\- I have arranged to meet with him twice at office hours. The first time, he wasn't there at the scheduled time. The second time, he emailed me to cancel last-second and I had to meet with the TA instead.

\- When the professor talked through the midterm in class, he was asked questions by several different members of the class regarding the professor’s grading. He couldn’t defend a single instance of grading a student deemed too harsh, offering weak answers such as “we’ll discuss that later” or “I’m not sure about that” while also directly contradicting things he said in class (ex: a classmate asked him why she got points off a question about the economy in the 1980s in discussing the implementation of Import Substitution Industrialization (ISI) economies in many countries. The professor took points off for her mentioning this, and even when she gave him a multitude of examples within the professor’s own powerpoints and notes agreeing with her he still could not say anything of value to her).

&#x200B;

Sorry for so many words, I am just angered that someone this incompetent, biased, and dickish can even be offered a spot at an institute of higher learning. I'm sure many of you have had worse professors, but I'd love to know whether I have any chance of making a difference or if I should just leave him a shitty end-of-year review and have that be it.

Edit: removed a sentence",9,0,340.957840733782,college
Sober Studying,"(Edit: I guess the alliterative title was taken literallym What do you do to have fun?)

To my fellow ""clean colleagues,"" what do you do to get by when everyone else is drunk and high, partying it up?

(For all intents and purposes, caffeine will not be considered to violate being clean)",5,0,342.3300861041524,college
What major is the most interesting and compelling? What major is the most boring and dull?,"Of course this is an opinion question! Not asking for advice, I graduated already",1,0,349.88709999304126,college
College Loop,"Hello everyone and thanks in advance,

&#x200B;

I attended Community College for 3 years taking basic classes like calculus 1,2,3, differential Equations, Linear algebra, Physics 1 and 2, general chem 1 and 2, and some electives. I had to repeat some because I failed the first time or wanted to get better grades then before to improve my chances of transferring. So eventually I transfer to the place I wanted to but for a different major, physics. I have been in for half a semester and am doing bad. Currently, failing 3 outta my 5 classes, But two can be easily recovered. I have busting my ass too this semester office hours, staying up till 1-2 am doing  work. I never go out our socialize, don't drink, or anything like that. And I am still failing. I BELIEVE THE PROBLEM TO BE WITH SOMETHING FROM MY STUDIES AT COMMUNITY COLLEGE. I passed the classes but didnt learn much. So when the professor mentions something in a previous math class I have no idea what he is talking about. I really don't want to fail another class and have to be an undergrad for 6-7 years. This has given me panic attacks for months now, I go days without eating or drinking. I was considering about taking a semester off and relaxing, because I have never had a summer in college to relax(have taken summer classes since high school) or attending an online engineering college which was my first major of choice an completing that.

&#x200B;

have you been through the same or any advice ?

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Sorry for the random messages but my mind won't stand still.",1,0,363.0338361041524,college
"New subreddit for weird stuff housemates do. Share with the world, it just might be therapeutic!",,1,0,364.3006763819302,college
Is it ok to go back to college for another undergrad degree after getting one already? Thanks,,25,0,369.08770184489316,college
Dorms,Have you caught your roommate having sex or did they not care if you were in the room and had sex anyway? It’s highly rude and I was just wondering if anyone else on here has had to deal with this issue. ,7,0,372.3073893448931,college
How to party with only a handful of people?,"College student here, we are used to going out with a big group of 15 people or so and going to fraternity parties and big parties in the city, but this weekend is fall break and I am left with only a small group of intimate friends to do things with. I don't want people to be bored!

How do you guys get lit with only a small number of people?

Alcohol will be flowing nicely, so that's not a problem.",3,0,377.153465733782,college
Does gpa matter in college?,"Throughout high school gpa mattered because you needed a good one to go to college, but since college is where education ends, does your gpa matter?",16,0,388.1799124930413,college
TV Service Provider Log In?,"This might seem really stupid, but I wanted to watch a certain cartoon on [nick.com](https://nick.com) but they asked me for my TV provider and login. Is this something I can ask IT for, or am I allowed to have it? I can't watch illegally both due to software against it and me personally not wanting to risk the trouble even if I could break the firewalls. We have TV access in the dorms, but my roommates and I don't personally have one so I don't have any info like that either.",16,0,398.66574582637463,college
Stolen items.,"Okay so I heare people yelling open up and knocking let us in at 1am, figured it was people knocking on the buildings ground floor. So I get up to use washroom in my boxers. Two girls are standing there banging on my roomates door. Hi... how are you? Good do you know where to get Xanax or coke? Um no I dont. I go to the washroom and pee and go back to my room. They where gone from the hall way and out of the suit in that time. My immediate thought was o good there gone! Not suspicious about why they where gone so fast... then I'm looking for my carten of cigaretts the next day and then it hits me! For real! In the time it took me to pee you where in my unlocked room, took my smokes and where out the door!? I told the office and they said they where going to speak with them. Nothing came of it of course, can't prove a smoke is your smoke.
But now everything I leave my room I am paranoid of stuff getting taken. That's 150 dollars worth of cigaretts! Like honestly they only way to have avoided that would have been to lock my door when I went to use the bathroom! I feel like telling my roomate no more parties in the suit or at least voicing I'm not cool with parties since the theft.
What else can I do?",4,0,401.0820768448931,college
"Some dorms have AC, some don’t","I’m sure this sub gets alot of people complaining about not having AC in their dorms but this is (I hope) a little different. The residence hall I’m in only has AC in a few dorms (School said it is for health accomodations), mine does not. Although, some other freshman dorms on campus have AC throughout, and the students in them are paying the same as I am. Is this fair? I have complained to the school several time but all I hear is “Sorry we can’t do anything, just hang out where there is AC until it cools off” Does anyone have andy ideas as to what I can do? Even with several fans blowing into and out of the room, I still struggle to sleep at night and sweat",6,0,407.990178696745,college
"I have decided to study either engineering or computer science, but I am having a hard time picking/prioritizing between prestige/name and engineering department rankings.","I am applying to Georgia Tech and University of Michigan (both pure engineering schools), and Columbia University (a great Ivy League school with a very well ranked engineering program, but not as highly ranked as the other two). Georgia Tech and UMich are ranked #4 and #6 respectively, while Columbia is ranked #18 in engineering, according to U.S. News.

Also, what if I added Northwestern into the mix. It would probably fall into the second category of prestige/name, but also has a good engineering program (ranked #13 in engineering). 

Which one should I pick?",7,0,415.09338471526354,college
Minorities in Computer Science,"being a dumbass, i spent the last 1 1/2 years pursing a AA in gen. studies without realizing it didnt transfer to a AA in CS. So I have now changed my major and just want to ask a question. Can a male of a racial minority make it in the CS field because I really like computers but really dont wanna spend all this time and money in a field where im not gonna be able to get into and/or be constantly harassed. ",2,0,420.8902018448931,college
[Advice] An RA is bullying me,"I go to school is NJ. My boyfriend is an RA and one of his coworkers, lets name her Marie, keeps flirting with him and trying to get closer with him. When I told him that she made me feel uncomfortable with how close they were, he told Marie and she started talking badly about me to her friends and coworkers at school. When I tried talking to her, she spoke to me in a nasty tone yet is very nice to my boyfriend. My school is very small and news spreads around. She keeps gossiping about me saying I'm a bad person. I don't have physical proof of her saying this. What do I do?",4,0,423.30023656711535,college
Vape on campus?,Wondering if vaping on campus's is allowed - I'm helping a friend move into a dorm and will be vaping. Just don't want to get anyone in trouble,5,0,423.3474356411894,college
"Generally, will sending many offensive emails lead to suspension or expulsion?",When the university consider it as harassment,11,0,427.7080374930413,college
3.1 GPA going into senior year of high school. How bad is it,Feeling kind of bad my gpa is only 3.1. How bad is it?,21,0,427.9588824004487,college
Should I join a frat,"Hey y’all I’m considering joining a frat, but I have some reservations about the whole thing because of my somewhat unique situation.
So I’m going to Syracuse university for their acting BFA program. I don’t know how much time I’ll be able to devote to a frat just because of all my extracurriculars. But I really don’t want to be left out of social life and other shit. I also don’t really know what social situations I’d be getting myself into, because while I occasionally enjoy a raver, I do enjoy quality conversations in social settings, but idk.

I don’t know how cohearant this was, so my apologies, but if you have info about frats, Syracuse, or whatever, I’d love some advice.
",9,0,430.01874351155976,college
Surviving college,"Good evening fellow reddit users. I am currently browsing the isles of Target and have stumbled across a very intriguing and yet perplexing problem. I start my second year of college in a few weeks but as a transfer student. I just transitioned schools from one state in the US to another, I am not a transfer student from abroad. I am in need of helpful tips and necessities to bring with me for my second year. Thank you and have a scrumptious day. ",4,0,431.2263939745228,college
Incoming freshman here. Should I refrain from bringing white shirts?,I want to know if they are more or less likely to get stained or dirty in a college environment. I am attending Temple.,9,0,439.09087314118943,college
My college specified my grades shouldn't decline or a rescind is possible. What are the chances I'll be rescinded?,I started off the term well when I applied but by the end of second semester I missed a lot of school and ended with a B+ grade in pre calc(but it's honors so it was curved up to A-). Because I did better in first semester my final transcript shows an A (technically it's supposed to be A- but the bump helped). However when I applied my grade was an A+. Is this enough of a decline to get rescinded? ,7,0,490.9729217523006,college
"Junior in High School looking at some college options, and what to do to look better when applying, heres some info about myself if you have any advice for me please lmk :D","Helloooo, so i'm currently in the summer of my junior year looking at possible colleges for myself and I need some advice on like what to do to look better when applying and were to apply, basically anything helps. Hell some memes will be gladly accepted. Ill probably type a lot so be warned.

Some background about myself, not really sure what matters so imma just throw in alot of info about myself.

\- I have decent grades, my gpa should be somewhere around a 92 or 93, and take really challenging classes imo.. AP/Honors all that. I think by my senior year i should have about 9 or 10 APs something like that.

\- My ACT score... i estimate/plan on getting something above a 31/32 still battling with that s\*\*\*

\- Extracurricular activities, yea not really. Im not very involved with my school, not a bout that life. Im pretty involved in the Video/Broadcasting club so theres that, doing a couple contests next year that I think I could win a few awards in. Besides that not much else. Did cross country and track my freshman and sophomore year but not like i got into JV or Varisity or anything but for what its worth I was there lol.

\- Ethnicity, one of the few things in my favor i think. Im hispanic (Peruvian if u wanna be more specific). Been moving around a lot in my life. Born in Peru, lived there for about 1.5 years then moved to Costa Rica (which side note... what a lit place) for about 11 years and the to Colombia for about 2 years and im now living in the US... Georgia for the past 3 years. So im probably gonna use the ""ethnic/diverse and international student"" card when I apply, gotta help their demographics lol. Clearly I dont know much about how the whole american college system works so thats why im here.

\- Bilingual... prolly goes without saying but yea Im fluent in spanish and english so yay... and I mean i took french for like 4 years, but I can ask to go to the bathroom and thats about it lmao, in all seriousness I can probably hold a conversation.

\- Colleges, something near Georgia would be nice so not too far from my fam. Anyways so far im looking at UGA, Georgia Tech (definitely a reach lol), University of Florida, University of Miami, Clemson, Chapell Hil? maybe idk. These are just some possible ones i've found. I really just want to go to a good college with a nice and fun atmosphere (ik thats obviously super basic but yea)

\- Career, definitely something related to business, so like Business Management, Sales, or maybe even financing

Dang I talked a lot about myself **Im really sorry** **if u hated this post haha** I thought i was gonna write like a small paragraph, anyways thank you if ya made it till here, really appreciate it. Relatively new to Reddit and so far I've gotten trashed for my posts, its all good, but hopefully this one does good. So if you have any **advice**, wanna promote ur college, or anything ya wanna say just leave a comment :D. Reddit is freaking great",7,0,494.16581527081905,college
Giving up on social interaction starting September. How do I isolate myself in a community college?,"I (19F) am finishing high school and will hopefully be heading to a community college in September. I’m extremely socially awkward and just want to take my lectures without unnecessary interaction, then just go home. I tried everything in order to be more outgoing in high school for the last three years, but nothing worked. This is the best possible solution. How do I blend into the new surroundings and go completely unnoticed by other people? I will still be speaking when spoken to and doing anything presentation related, it’s more the after class banter I’m avoiding",11,0,494.53374351155975,college
Are there any certificates that I can get before admitting to an elite college like MIT?,"A little background about myself, I'm a 15 year old Egyptian dude who's currently in Kuwait, I'm going to be in the 11th grade next year and I always tended to self educate myself rather than rely on my school's curriculum, for example, I've been studying chemistry for almost 4 months now, and I'm planning on joining a local toastmasters club.

I'm totally down to studying for a certificate if its accessible in my location or available online.

Sorry for the format, wrote this on my phone. ",7,0,503.5153060115598,college
How do I research what I should do?,"How do I research what degree/certifications I should get, cost of tuition, a degree/certificate's expected earnings, education requirements, what classes are financially and economically beneficial on my part, and chance of getting hired? How should I research demand for a job, what jobs are available, outlook, how much of that demand is likely to be filled, and runway? Because I'm very confused when it comes to education. All I see are consumer products, businesses, scams, and a bunch of buzzwords. I know I want to do something involving mathematics and creativity.",4,0,504.11978517822644,college
What is your College's political scene like? Is it as bad as its reputation?,"I'm a High School Junior interested in joining a political debate club of some sort when I get to college. I noticed the State University I plan to transfer to has a Socialist Club and a Republican Club but no Liberal club and am considering starting up a center left club when I get there.

So is College Political Discourse as bad as its reputation? Do y'all have constructive debates with political opponents and stuff",5,0,520.9986046226709,college
Why are so many students so willing to blindly take on massive amounts of college debt and ignore otherwise good advice?,,9,0,535.8448314745227,college
My roommate smeels what do I do?," know that I could just tell her but I cant do it, we are in the same dorm room and she doesnt take frequent showers. So my nose is dying",6,0,540.4680722152635,college
3 exams in 5 days,"Anyone got any tips for this? I need 21% to pass my first one, roughly 40% to pass my second one, and roughly 60% to pass my third. I got work in between both days leaving me basically a day to study. I’m okay with the first two as I understand the material quite well but still need to study for it. I’ve been pretty calm and not studying too hard for my first one as I feel I don’t want to drain myself for the last one. Anyone got any tips for this? Thanks in advance 

E: Also my third one is very hard to study for as it’s an online class and solely based off the textbook, no lecture notes or anything else. Any tips for studying from the textbook? ",5,0,552.5793222152636,college
Would you cheat on a take home test? My friend did and he feels guilty,"He knew the content, but was to lazy. Now he regrets it and feels bad he did it. what would you do if you were him?

Ty everyone!! 🙂",14,0,563.2734194374857,college
UPenn student thinks study abroad should be pass/fail,,1,0,568.1216833263746,college
How my first day back after Spring Break,"Class was fine. Took 2 quizzes everything is great. Waited all afternoon for 3rd class this evening it was long but fine. 

Then....after class was over I’m in my car waiting on my sister to get done and I’m reading the ABCs of Emergency Trauma Assessment and I go A...B...C...D... ... ... and I had a massive brain fart on what letter comes next and my brain legit says G. And for a moment I thought I was right. 

Pretty sure it was a long day. Lol

How was yours? ",0,0,575.827389344893,college
What are the best Colleges/Universities for a History Major?,"Preferably under 10k per year, and on the west coast with an acceptance rate higher than 40%.",24,0,581.7307805485968,college
"I have a multiple choice exam 1 hour from now and I haven't studied at all, how do I increase my chances of not failing?","Theoretically, if there is 4 choices and you pick one choice throughout the exam (a, b, c, or d) you should get around 25%, right? Also, any psychology students wanna chime in? Which letter is more favourable? I mean I can just glance over at the guy next to me but I have too much respect for the education system ^^/s (they're watching like bats).",4,0,589.0896925856339,college
Is SAT hard?,I was born in the US but studied in Hong Kong.Compared with the exams of Hong Kong.Is SAT hard?And by how much?,15,0,591.3033499930413,college
Advice on what to do about professor who talks about his life the whole class.,"So I have this class with a professor who literally spends the whole class talking about his life. He talks about his past experiences, his wife, his kids, all the people he’s met over his career. Like, almost nothing has to do with the class he’s supposed to be teaching. 

Thing is, reading the syllabus, I see there are a lot of assignments over the semester and this guy is just busy criticizing Trump and talking about his years living in a foreign country. This is my first semester in college and his class is very disappointing and giving me anxiety. 

I can still drop the class for another week for 50% tuition refund which was paid by financial aid. What do you think, should I stick it out or leave and get a withdrawal on my transcript? Also, should I report this to someone?",10,0,614.1586740671154,college
How I knew right away not to choose Yale,,1,0,618.9991023078561,college
Professor won’t accept assignment (5% of grade),"So I was swamped with work this week and accidentally submitted a paper for another class to this class. Blackboard doesn’t let us delete submissions, so I emailed my professor right away and told her my mistake. 

The assignment isn’t even due until 12 tonight, and her response was “I don’t accept email submissions”. Now I know I fucked up but it was an honest mistake and I don’t see why I deserve to lose that much of my grade because of it. Anyone ever been in a similar situation before or have any advice? ",9,0,621.8101439745228,college
I'm 25 years old and just started college back this semester. How do I socialize without feeling like I'm surrounded by children?,"First off. I Just want to say I don't mean ""children"" in a (completely) derogatory way. I did several years of college right out of highschool, dropped out (long list of reasons why not all where under my control) and now Im back in a different major. 

Thing is, I'm 25 years old and in classes with people 7 years younger than me. Even as a senior in college my first time through I felt older. I went through some pretty heavy shit in my life so its not just about age. 

Anyways. I want to actually be social this time through college. Thing is, i feel like it would be weird for me to do lots of stuff. I'm not talking about frats (always hated those, still do) but stuff like clubs or even professional organizations (im going to bite the bullet on those for networking and professional development purposes, awkward or not). I mean. Im a good 5-7 years older than a lot of these people, which means less at my age but im very diferent than I was at 19-21 years old. 

Ive got a few things on my side. I look young (at my current job when I was hired I had a few other people think I was 18-19 years old, not 24-25, and by a few I mean most of the people I work with). I Live in my own house (abiet in non tradition student housing on campus,  but still its a house to myself). I have plenty of hobbies and stuff. 

My biggest worry  is dating. To be honest I was never good at dating, and now that I'm older I just feel weird even thinking about it with most of the women Ive met so far. They are just so....young. I mean they look like adults but a lot of the attitudes and stuff are still a little naive. I don't know how to describe it. Maybe its just mannerisms. 

I should probably add that the 3 years I spent not in college, those were due to health issues, I actually ended up isolated in my house for several years with very little in person contact with anyone other than my family. So Im also trying to reintegrate into society as a whole, which is challenging in its own ways since I'm super out of the loop about everything. 

Maybe I'm just overthinking all this. But i don't want to look back and feel like I wasted opportunites to meet people, which is how I feel about my first few years in college. ",15,0,630.0482921226709,college
Check out my sub /r/GoodCoffeePoorPeople,"I love coffee, but I'm a poor college kid raising a family and want to collaborate with others to figure this poor people coffee thing out. Come check it out!

/r/GoodCoffeePoorPeople",0,0,632.616440270819,college
FAFSA SAP APPEAL LETTER HELPPP ME CORRECT / AND / OR ADD THINGS,,2,0,646.9174587893376,college
Scholarship Opportunity - Share to join and aid my quest of achieving a scholarship for college!,"Long title lol

Here is a fun link to share and spread the word:

https://www.collegexpress.com/reg/ref/6fc1q3rc28n2vzj4mjuscsvzd/",0,0,646.9978060115598,college
Roommate blues,"So next semister I’m talking to my AC about possibly switching rooms due to the fact my roommate isn’t following/respecting the needs that I have.  For starters, I have early classes which means I need my sleep, but he’s constantly gaming and on his computer making it bright and he’s loud.  Secondly, sometimes I have a tendency to talk in my sleep, and he yelled at me even though i couldn’t control it. He wasn’t concerned he didn’t care he just said shut the fuck up.  Is this worth while bringing up to my AC? Cause I’ve tried working it out and no prevail.",10,0,656.6876208263747,college
Best place to sell used text books?,What is the best place I can sell my used text books and get money for them?,2,0,663.1946925856339,college
Why do college grades matter in the long run,Some of my friends were trying to convince me college grades don't matter in the long term. What are the sides of this issue ,10,0,663.8289055485968,college
What were your final grades for this semester? (Fall 2017),"1. What University/Community College do you go to?
> [University of Central Florida](https://www.ucf.edu/)

2. What's your major?
> English Literature (Undergrad)

3. What classes did you take and final grades?

> **American Literature** (93.42%)

> **German I** (97.09%)

> **Theories and Techniques of Literature Study** (90.5%)

I am so relieved I managed to receive such good grades, despite it being my first semester at a University after transferring from [EFSC](http://www.easternflorida.edu/). Now if only I can do this again this upcoming semester.",7,0,674.8622620300782,college
Is college really worth it?,Not saying that it isn't or it is. This is simply up for discussion. I have noticed some of the brightest and most affluent minds not go to college and still make it. And I have also seen some not make it without college. Thoughts?,18,0,685.2316717523006,college
How do you get invited to college parties?,I wanna feel cool.,5,0,708.8191370300783,college
What are the chances of getting into a IV league school if I join ptk honor society?,"Hey I recently got a invitation to join the ptk honor society, I don’t know much about the honor society but one of the person who working there said it could make a big difference when transferring to college. Right now I am working on my Aa degree(undecided for now) in a community college with a gpa of 3.5 currently and will be completing it at end of 2018. My goal is to transfer to a IV league school mostly Cornell and Colombia.  How likely will they accept me if I joined the ptk honor society and how would I compare to other stacked 4.0 students?",19,0,730.1904564745228,college
How do I become happy at this place?,"I want advice as to what I should do to make my life better.

I am 18 years old and a freshman at a four year state school. I was born in a two parent household with good income and i've always been in a good situation. In High School I received a 3.1 GPA and a 23 on my ACT. I played baseball, football and basketball, i've loved sports all my life. I was recruited to play baseball here at this four year school and several others, it's a D3 so there's no scholarship money but it's still a great honor considering that they've won National Championships and such in the past. I'm 6'3, 180 pounds, I workout four days a week and I truly believe based on what my peers have told me that I am good looking.

My life seems pretty good, doesn't it?

Well it certainly isn't bad, I have a lot to be thankful for. But we all want to maximize our lives don't we? If you're given blessings why not try and make the most of them? I feel as though I'm not making the most of my life and that i'm wasting what I was given, i'm not being all that I can be.

My brother is 15, a freshman in High School. He ""has it all"" so to speak. He's my height, my weight, my speed, twice my athleticism and also better in school. He's going to be the starting quarterback for the varsity football team next year and he's also going to be on varsity for both baseball and basketball as a freshman. He's got certain things that I don't, and i'm lesser than him in that sense. I'm not jealous, I do my best to guide him and give him someone to look up to. It just sort of pains me that he's everything that I wasn't.

When I was a junior, I dated this girl who was perfect. A 10. Exactly like me in every way. Everything I had ever dreamed of and more. I lost her. I lost her because I wasn't confident enough in myself and she wanted more in a guy. Instead of accepting it, I got bitter and called her a bitch and swore revenge and all that. I didn't think she deserved good terms so I didn't give them.

Now i'm in college and the first month has been wild, but not necessarily in a good way. I've met a lot of people who've turned out to be fake friends, something I wasn't used to in High School because I had the same friends through all four years. I thought I was going to be best friends with these dudes from my floor, we played on the same intramural flag football team, went to parties and hung out like we were friends. But now they've double crossed me, because they told me yesterday that they're planning to get a house next year and since there's no five bedroom houses available, i'm going to be the odd man out. I don't know why this happened.

So now I signed a sophomore release and stuff and I have nowhere to live, I thought that these were my friends when in reality they're just guys who'll be fine without me. Not to mention, they told me I should try and link up with another dude i've been hanging out with to see if I could live with him, but this guy double crossed me as well. When I asked him to hang out tonight he didn't respond to my text, yet he was still chilling with other people. This was three days after he told me that he wanted to room with me next semester and that we're gonna be bros. I should've known not to trust him because he's double crossed people before me. But still, what the hell happened? What did I do wrong? How did I go from having friends to not having friends?

Oh, and by the way I quit baseball because I thought that these guys were going to be my social group and also because I wanted to put more focus into school. Plus I want to get a job up here by winter break so I can start working towards more financial freedom.

There's so much more to tell, and i'd like to discuss some of it with people in the comments, I just sort of feel lost right now, a little lonely. I should've known not to trust certain people. But i'm just sick of life being this way when it shouldn't. I shouldn't be a loner, I shouldn't be a loser. I should have friends and I should be happier than I am right now.",3,0,741.7518569374856,college
"How do you continue living life (e.g. going to concert, moving theaters, running marathons) after all of this evil in the world keeps on happening, especially as a young (college) student?","My partner and I are going to a concert in a couple of weeks and our friends were supposed to come, but one of them bailed out after the Las Vegas shooting. She was already nervous and paranoid after the Ariana Grande concert, but now she's just not willing to go at all. Thoughts?",9,0,742.8828870300782,college
Why is a Math class required in college?,I am in a STATS class and I don't see the purpose of it.  It's just complex formulas for simple things like probability. And for things that I won't really use in life like sampling methods. I'd prefer to take a financial literacy math class with taxes etc.,11,0,749.2370421226709,college
Affirmative Action Opinions?,What are everyone's thoughts on affirmative action? Is it racist? Is it a good policy? Should it stay or go and why?,8,0,752.1266138819302,college
If you can't really explain your major...,"I majored in Organizational Communication and graduated in Dec 2016. Currently hating my life working as an admin intern (I will not create a career in administrative work. HELL NO.), and reprising my first job as a bagger. Needless to say my pride is hurt and I feel bad. Choosing the major wasn't really an active choice. I Just know, despite having the mind for it, at 17, I shied away from STEM (that I eventually craved two semesters before graduating). I missed the concrete, relatively objective nature of the studies and work.

I STILL can't exactly explain my major to people when they ask. Why is this? Words that come to mind just thinking about the courses are 'abstract', 'removed', 'useless', 'I already knew that practically speaking but just got the academic name for it', etc. There's even a video called What is Org Comm and it's 17 minutes of a guy repeating himself... for 17 minutes and all it amounts to is something that makes you go ""ok and?""

Needless to say I'm looking into software development/information technology. Bought a Python course for $10 from Udemy.",1,0,812.6610236041524,college
What is more important for getting into a good graduate program? Good GPA or Hard major?,"Hi,

I'm currently a sophomore at Texas A&M majoring in International Studies. I really want to get into a a good graduate school like Harvard or LSC to study business or Economics. My GPA is ok, at 3.5, but I know I can graduate with a 3.75 if I stay in the same major. 

But I'm tempted to study Economics instead, even though I know it will be harder. I predict my GPA will be a 3.6 if I switch.

So what is more important for getting into a good graduate program, your GPA or your major?",6,0,820.0852944374857,college
I'm scared shitless of college. What can I do?," I don't even know how to start. I’m a girl and I’m 18 years old. Last time I ate something was two days ago, I sleep maybe 3 hours/night. I have nightmares. I can't talk to people anymore. I can't even cry. I didn't even shower in days. I'm not scared; I'm actually terrified of college.
 
 In high school, I was pretty good at everything, at Foreign Languages, Literature, Mathematics and Physics. I worked harder for the last two, so I'm going to study Electrical Engineering (a little bit different from the American one, here it's only about electrical systems and power), but that's where my problem begin.

 How do I know if I will like it? I mean, how does anyone who didn't go to college yet know for sure if they like the major they picked? What if I fail all my classes? And if I don't like it, what am I going to do? I don't like anything like it's the passion of my life, but I can get pretty good at anything I work on. I'm really, really scared, I can't even read anything, including texts from my friends without freaking out. And I know they worry about their majors just like me, but I can't help it. My heart beats so fast all time and I can't even breathe normally sometimes. I'm in an awful shape and I'm scared that won't go away. 

 And I can't stay a year at home. I live in a rural area in Eastern Europe. After a year of staying here, I will be as clueless and anxious as I am now, because there is no one I can talk to. People from here didn't go to college. So that's not an option. 

 Also, debt isn't a problem. College is free here; I think I would go plain crazy if it wasn't. But moving in the biggest town in my country after living peacefully in a village scares the hell out of me. And switching majors isn’t that easy, because then you have to pay for your new major. 

 What can I do to easy at least a little bit my soul? I can't do this anymore; it just eats out my life day by day.  

**TL;DR**: I'm scared shitless of college, of being both a failure and realizing I don't like it. What can I do?",5,0,823.6439518448931,college
Using Gym on Campus,"Hey, I had a kinda stupid question. Gonna be a sophomore next year at a very large State University. I want to start using the gym because I'm getting pudgy. It sounds dumb... but I'm not sure how to do it. I've never actually gone to a gym before.

Will there be lockers there that I can rent or use my own padlock? And if there are lockers, is it ""acceptable"" to bring a bag with some gym clothes and throw them in there in the morning before class, then come back and workout after class? I assume there will be showers, do you bring some soap and stuff to these or is it really just for rinsing off? 

Again sorry for these dumb questions! I don't want to look *too* out of place when i head in!

Side Note: I have plenty of friends and stuff, but I don't live on campus and don't really have the ability to. How does one get invited to parties",4,0,828.6026092523006,college
Is this even possible?,"Hi, first off let me address that I am a complete and udder noob when it comes to college, I mean I failed my first year COMPLETELY... So Yeah i'm trash.

So I attended college for my first year, My first quarter I failed, litteraly just stopped going to class, my second quarter FAILED again because I just ended up not going to class, third quarter same story FAILED...

I got lazy, I hated commuting to class every single day. I tried taking classes later in the day, it just ended up me being lazier and getting lazier. I even tried taking an online course, I was doing fine, then decided to not turn in any assignments then just from there decided to stop all together... So in the end, Technically I am on a 4 Quarter Probation.

This being said, my GPA is a BIG BAD ZERO (0.00) Straight ""F"" for ""Fucking Sucks to be You"" Now I know I can wait the 4 quarters to start up again, but would it be possible to just apply as a ""New Student"" and have something like a restart? It'd be a way of cheating the system if possible, and I don't know entirely what the chances of me are getting caught are (This is a larger sized College). With that also, What are the consequences of getting caught? 

I really feel better about things now, I mean earlier my life was in shambles a tad bit, just a lot of UN-necessary drama, and problems I had. I did feel lazy, and out of a mindset where I didn't want to go to school, but being in the position I am in I want to, I really want to pursue a career in Computer Science.

TL;DR

I failed my first year, with an accumulative GPA of 0.00 thus getting be Suspended for 4 Quarters. I want to apply sooner than that, I've got my life together in a sense and have a better plan when I take classes again. This 4 Quarter suspension has me in a tight spot because I want to be able to go to class right away. And I want to know if I have any other options. ",4,0,848.0246462893376,college
"Why does it seem that there are much fewer entry level positions for bachelor's degree holders than those with masters degrees, even though you need a decent amount of field experience to receive your Masters in the first place?",,1,0,861.0488592523004,college
Math majors - would you advise against switching to math?,"I'm currently a sophomore at a well-regarded LAC following an Econ major track.  I'm kinda dissatisfied with Econ though, mainly because it seems everyone is either an Econ or Business and there's a stigma in that regard.  I do find Econ interesting, but I also kind of find it to be silly sometimes even though I haven't gotten many ""A""s in it (I've heard undergrad Econ is a joke/weird compared to graduate studies in it).  I completed Multivariable Calc last fall because I was considering being a math minor or even a double major - but I don't want to do both Econ-Math now.  I considered Econ and Philosophy, and I kind of regret not having an interest in doing Math and Philosophy double major from the start.

My question is, if I switched to a Math major would I be absolutely miserable?  I might just do the minor and stick Econ out.  I'm taking a 4 week intro to proofs class in the spring, as well.  Thanks for any advice.  Also, if you were a math major, what are you doing now? ",5,0,969.9458731411895,college
"LPT: Instead of listing all the numbers for each question when doing many multiple choice from a text/workbook, make a number grid.","If you can't or don't want to write in the text/workbook that you use, you usually use a separate piece of paper and list numbers  down a column and answer right next to the number. 

Listing out the numbers can be exhausting, so why not make a grid? 

 https://imgur.com/gallery/S3KW0

First number place on the top row and the second half number place on the leftmost column (except for the last row, but you get it).",8,0,985.7121115671154,college
Some Colleges Have More Students From the Top 1 Percent Than the Bottom 60. Find Yours.,,0,0,994.8169958263745,college
"45-60min commute to school, how can i stop being late?","Last semester I was late to all of my morning classes. This is because the commute was so damn long; 45minutes to an hour without any crazy delays. When there are delays, I get really late in the mornings (these are actually very common). So late that I end up missing my 8am classes altogether.

How can i fix this?",12,0,1011.8380374930413,college
University vs College,Is there a difference in the education and vibe at a University vs a College or are they pretty much the same?,6,0,1056.3520305485968,college
proof Reading,I recently sent my tutor a draft of my essay assignment with footnotes my father made when he proofread it. Would this be considered a punishable offence? If anyone can offer any advice it would be greatly appreciated!,5,0,1058.2346925856339,college
Should we know anything about our midterm by now?,"So I'm a freshman taking an introductory news writing class.  Sometime in the coming week, we have to take our midterm for this class.  It's only four days away from the absolute last day we can take it, but so far, as far as I can tell (I have been actively paying attention during class), the teacher has said approximately zero about the midterm or what sort of material might be on it.  

My question is, is this par for the course?  What can I do at this point preparation-wise?",2,0,1096.2114981411894,college
College education,"Hello,

I was just wondering, I am taking AP English 4 in high school and it is extremely difficult. I really want to drop to the regular class but i am being told not to, because english 4 AP is a good preperation for college. 

I just had the question of how hard exactly is college english? For example, the people who take normal english in high school, will they fail college english? Because the gap between normal and AP level is big.

Thanks",4,0,1136.9939981411894,college
Do i have a chance getting in?,"i will preface this as i am a very anxious person and college is a big worry for me. i have a 2.75 gpa and a 21 act score, i also am involved in deca and have a part time job. i was hoping to go to loyola or depaul which are my dream schools. do i have a chance getting into either school? are there any good colleges in chicago that i would be qualified for? i want to major in marketing 
edit: i am currently a high school senior",3,0,1142.2628060115599,college
Wife is looking for an online school for a Biology degree,"She already has an Associate's degree and most of a Bachelors in Gen Ed but is wanting to get into a Vet School in the future and so she would like to pursue a degree in Biology or a related field in order to get into a Vet School.  The issue is that she has a full time job currently and we live in a small town with a few colleges nearby but none offer classes that fit her schedule.

Are there any online schools that do a Biology degree online?

We are in the U.S.",2,0,1159.878303696745,college
Extra year and 3 extra BAs worth the cost?,"Considering taking a fifth year so I won't have to take two 18 credit hour semesters. If I do, I'll graduate with 4 BA degrees (Finance, Mathematics, International Business, and Economics)  and a minor(statistics), but with a lot of debt (private university). If I don't, I'll only graduate with one BA (economics)  and two minors(finance and mathematics). I'm trying to get my PhD in econ and I feel that the degrees will give me a competitive advantage and help me boost my GPA. Any advice would be welcome",13,0,1175.2606069374856,college
How does one approach applying for scholarships?,,3,0,1178.0014634189672,college
Question about calculating GPA?,"I'm looking to transfer to another school and my I finished my semester with an A,A,A-,B. According to my student portal, my gpa is a 3.63. Wouldn't my GPA technically be a 3.8 instead of a 3.63? Even though I got an A- in one of my courses, would I get in trouble if I put my transfer GPA as 3.8? I'm not sure with my 3.63 that I will get into any UC's so I am worried. ",9,0,1178.8868800856337,college
Good idea to bring a Keurig?,"Hi, I'll be moving into a dorm as an incoming freshman and I want to bring my Keurig. I love coffee and it really helps with staying up/studying. Also, I'm  pretty sure it's cheaper than going to a coffee shop 2-3 times a day. Have any of you brought one and have had a good experience? Or, was there something holding you back from bringing it, or didn't enjoy having it around?",13,0,1184.1563013819302,college
Where can I read about writing complaints of bad service?,"I have ADHD. This past semester I appealed for accommodations. I am dissatisfied with the way my third world university handled me as a student with a disability and as a graduate student (I finished my masteral degree this year), mostly the first one because the stigma and ignorance in my third world country led to our university [not having a disability office](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/4c2xzf/who_decides_what_is_reasonable_in_the_context_of/d1fm7no?context=10000).

I was advised to address my complaints to the vice president of my university who is already expecting a letter from me.

**Where can I read about writing complaints of bad service non-aggressively to places you don't want to antagonize please?**

My friend gave me some advice such as mentioning good news first, pointing out the good aspects of the service, encourage dialogue, use ""we/our"" instead of ""I/me/my"" and ""I/me/my"" instead of ""you/your"".

**Where can I read more about those please?**",0,0,1193.8415097152636,college
Good minor?,"Hello, I am looking into majoring in marketing, and minoring in supply chain management. What is the general concensus on this? Thank you all very much.",5,0,1203.425653233782,college
how hard is university physics 2?,"I'm 31 finally going back to school and getting an engineering degree.  Going full time and I got credit for university physics 1 from an ap test I took in high school.  Is university physics 2 hard? Should I just take 2425 instead? I'm also taking calculus 3, English 2 and intro to mech. I just don't want to end up overwhelmed and I feel like physics will give me the hardest time. ",4,0,1205.2500166597079,college
Don't know where I'm headed at the moment...,"To give a bit of background, I'm a college student finishing up my 3rd year at a community college with a good amount of courses under my belt in Math and Science. My plan was to be out of here finishing this Spring semester but instead have been falling behind due to some lack of motivation for school work.

About around midway through my 2nd year of college I began having internal issues with myself which led me to struggle with school work. I thought I could just easily recover from it but have found myself to be digging a deeper hole. I began receiving low grades and they only went lower and lower as time progressed. This past fall semester of 2015 I performed a bit better and bought my GPA up to a 2.9, as I had it drop from ~3.4 to ~2.5 over a few semesters. But after Fall, my grades resumed to plummet in a majority of my classes. I've talked to a few friends here and there about how I feel about how I'm doing in school and I've been told that I may be going under some sort of depression. I've thought about it a bit and I do have anxiety issues and had moments where I felt completely miserable about where I'm headed in life so far, but still don't consider myself depressed.

To give my opinion about what might be the case, I believe I may have been doing more than what I should be able to handle. Ever since I registered for college in 2013, I've been here non-stop without any breaks really.  Full time student even after getting a job last year, which I will mention is working at McDonald's but it's not even stressful at all. I'm considering possibly becoming just a part time student (cutting down to 2 maybe 3 courses from the full 4 or 5 I usually tackle) so I can balance out a better schedule.

In addition, lately I've also had other hobbies and outside projects that I've been working on which have shown me some results and have had me consider less about school and more about just working hard and practicing what I know so far and grow from there.

Just wanting to post this to see what responses I can get to help me with improving my path. I'm open to all comments and/or any criticism about what I've done so far and even about my own opinion.",5,0,1226.0435467523005,college
*Updating* Transfer Credit Question,"So I went to a community college for gen-eds and all that jazz, was doing fine, got approx. 30 credits, decided to transfer to the big university down the street. (year 2013)

My gpa at this point was 3.4-3.6 range. This big college has this information. (year 2014)

 I got in, but in an extended story my student loans got revoked, so I ended up not being able to go there and had to jump bandwagon back into the community college.

My actual life went to shit ( homeless, family issues, existential crisis etc..) in this time period and I *stupidly* kept going to community college. I ended up getting pretty fucking depressed and blew off 2 semesters of work in mostly gen eds and a math course. (year 2015) gpa = 2.0

Time passed, I worked through my issues, get this I got a job at the big university and they are paying me to got back to school! I don't want to have to redo all that work as I feel it was a poor representation of my current mental/emotional state. (2016)

Can I just pretend it never happened and say I wont update my transcript from past universities? Or will that really bite me in the ass down the road? I do want to go to grad school eventually.

Thanks ahead of time!
",5,0,1230.1688476782265,college
Military benefits in college?,So from what I hear since my Dad was in the military I get benefits for it and I can pretty much go to college for half the cost or free? I can't remember right now I think it only covers tuition? But anywho I heard since my dad was in the military I could also get this bill that pays me every month to support myself as long as I pass my classes? Does anyone know what that bill is?,4,0,1233.835028233782,college
Trying to pick a solid major,"Hey everyone, I'm about to be a senior in high school now and it's FINALLY time to pick a university and find a major. Right now, I've narrowed it down to Auburn and U of AL, with Troy and UAH in some consideration. I have an interest in PCs, and I'm interested in learning how to program. Hardware interests me too, but I really find the software side fascinating. However, I'm not sure if going the engineering route in Computer Science or Engineering would be such a good of because of my extremely mediocre math and science skills. I've always done much better in English and History, but I'm not really into the idea of making either of those my major in college. I've been looking into Information Systems and Accounting lately, they seem very reasonable with the amount of science and math courses I would have to take, and still give me pay that can rival engineers as I climb up in promotions. Information Systems also seems to have some cool specialization at UA.  I'm here to take any other suggestions as well though, as I'm all ears.
",7,0,1244.5918106411893,college
"My grades came in, and I am disappointed.","I finished the semester with a 3.2 GPA and my lowest grade being a B-, but I also have a W/D (I was failing calc, my one and only W/D thus far) and a Incomplete, which ""Indicates that the student has done passing work in the course but that some part of the work is, for good and acceptable reason, not complete at the end of the term."". I missed a class when I was taking a weekend class that was only two weeks. 

I am also disappointed that I only went from a 2.81 to a 2.87. The class I got a B- in was hard, though. 

What do you guys think?",3,0,1247.2760004560043,college
"I'm 30 and going back to school. How do I pay for it if our household income is over 100k? (We live in the bay area, Ca)","My wife and I got married last year, and while I had a successful and lucrative career, it didn't afford me much quality time. Thinking about a family in the future, I thought that there had never been a better time than now to get school out of the way. I've been hunting for grants and scholarships, but I haven't really seen a return. 

The things we've done:
-Scaled way back on fine dining
-I'm driving for Uber when I can 
-I'm making 90% of our meals here at home. 
-We're fortunately living in a home my parents own (minimal cost) 

Before I quit my job we paid off all of our debt and we'd like to keep it that way, if at all possible.  

Thanks for any help/advice!",14,0,1269.2706185115599,college
"Have an opportunity here, not sure if I want to take it.","Junior in high school here. My school offers college credit classes via the local community college. They now offer a program where if you earn six credits from them in high school, you can go to that college and get an associates degree for free. Now that's a great deal, but here's why I'm not sure if I want to take it -

1.I'd really like to move somewhere new, I've lived in this town my entire life and am getting bored with it (it's not a bad place, just getting monotonous). I'd like to move to a bigger city that has job/networking opportunities (will be majoring in some kind of engineering) and music performance opportunities (I don't plan on playing professionally, but I *love* playing as a hobby and would like more chances to do so outside of school). Also, want to be more independent.

2.I probably wouldn't take the college classes otherwise (I haven't taken any thus far, and would have to earn all the credits my senior year). I have the ability to do it, but feel it would stress me out and take too much time (I was in AP English for a month, and switched to regular English because it was too time consuming. But that may have been because of the teacher's style).

3.The college classes are taught by the high school teachers. I have/had them for other classes, and they're nice people, but it's hard for me to learn with their teaching style and I'm not sure if I want to start my college career with that.

4.I do have a college in mind that I would like to go to - University of Cincinnati - but I wouldn't be able to transfer  after getting my associates at the community college due to the way their engineering program is set up(or at least it would be very hard to). They do have a co-op program that starts your second year, and engineers make upwards to $19/hour in it. I'm great at saving (am saving now), but not sure it'll be enough. Cincinnati is the only college campus I've visited so far, and I plan on visiting other ones, but it'd be a good fit for me. Cost wise it's right in the middle compared to other schools I'm looking at. (There are other good engineering schools I can transfer to - Toledo, Cleveland - but from what I understand Cincinnati's co-op is the best and from what I've read will be the best for me).

5.I think I'll be able to get a decent amount of scholarships (GPA is a high 3.8/low 3.9, not sure exactly) and have decent test scores (which I plan to retake,so should go up). Also am about to start really looking for them, but again, not sure if it'll be enough.

Sorry this is so long, I've been thinking about this for a few months now. Number 1 is the biggest reason on this list, but cost of college is scaring me a little and not sure if it's worth moving. Any advice is appreciated, and if you want to know anything else just ask.",0,0,1285.0658499930412,college
Getting in an ivy league ?,Do you need to have won a state or international competition to get into one of these schools if your school doesnt offer any AP classes ?,3,0,1285.9703060115598,college
Do I need to cite this?,"My English professor assigns papers for me to wright. Some of these papers I have a vast amount of prior knowledge. I can and have wrote papers with out using sources other them myself.

Is it suspicious if I summit a paper with no citations on it? Do I need to cite myself? Is this plagiarism? 

Edit: Don't mention the 'common knowledge' rule. I don't know how to determine if the information is common or not,but that's a problem for another day.",5,0,1286.1508847152634,college
struggle trying to apply to college,"I have a tourist visa and decided to stay in the country, now that I am done with high school I can't go to college cause of my status, what can I do? ",1,0,1287.1728060115597,college
What to focus on to get into college?,"I'm still a freshman in High School but I hope to start early on preparing for college cuz reasons.
I'm a very well-rounded students and have above average skills in athletics, arts, academics, and community service. What I don't know is if I should focus on academics or my extracurriculars? (All my extracurriculars are pretty resume worthy) (Im not in all honors, but most honors classes) (None of my extracurriculars are scholarship worthy)

TL;DR - What's better: Good grades/bad extracurriculars or Bad grades/good extracurriculars",5,0,1298.8864055485967,college
How bad will this semester effect me and will I be on academic probation?,"I'm in my second year of community college. So far I have a 3.25 GPA. The college I want to transfer to, and that i just applied for, is part of a transfer agreement that if you have above a 3.0 it's automatic admission, you can still get in with a lower GPA as well. 

I completely tanked this semester. I'm not sure why, maybe burn out, maybe absolutely hating CC. I have never been good at school but I did really good (for someone who had a 1.8 GPA in high school) the first 3 semesters but I'm just struggling this semester. I withdrew from one class, have 2 D's and an F in my other 3 classes. I can't withdraw another class without it affecting my financial aid so I think I'm just going to have to try and pull at least those D's up to C's or B's if I can. 

I'm talking to my professors about all this monday but until then how fucked am I? I assume I wont be getting into that college but again they are pretty lenient with the admissions. How much will my GPA tank? Will I be placed on academic probation or even kicked out? I'm getting very worried ",5,0,1299.214241196745,college
Why College Alone Won't Prepare You for a Job,,1,0,1311.7507458263747,college
What's a good online college for a Master's in Psychology (specifically Child Psychology)?,"I'm currently attending Kaplan University Online and will have my bachelor's in a year. I don't really enjoy the school and I want to go somewhere else to get my Master's, but I also want to keep going to school online.

Do you any of you know of good Psych Master's programs online?",2,0,1316.0787087893375,college
Looking to interview two people for a psychology class between the ages of 43-63,Anyone willing to help? I don't really have anyone in my life between these ages unfortunately.,2,0,1335.042389344893,college
UC Berkeley profs blast secret IT monitoring kit on campus,,0,0,1350.7364981411895,college
Pick a class fore me (any class!) NEIU,"I'm a senior accounting major at NEIU. I have 3 classes for my major, can't take any other classes that will help graduate this semester. I need one more to be a full time student. Doesn't matter at all what I take, as long as it's 3 credit hours I'm good.

I want to take something interesting and that might help me out in the real world.

Any ideas?",10,0,1378.0562087893377,college
"I am taking 3 seminars, how to survive?","Hello, I am a student at the UofT Scarbourough Campus, I am majoring in history and political science.  This is my fourth and final year at UofT

I am taking three seminars and 2 normal courses with tutorials.  This means a lot of readings and all of the seminars require me to do a 12-15 page research paper, all of them are due on the final week.  Another of the normal lecture corses also need a 10-12 page paper for the final assignment.  

Any advice you can offer me?
Some questions I have are:

1) How do I balance the readings for each seminar?

2) Is there a quick way to get through as much of the readings as possible so I don't spend too much time with one reading?  It is easier for one of the seminars as I am just doing 1 reading for my group(we divided the readings up) but I still have everything else to deal with.

3) How do I balance time in researching the topics for each big essay?

4) One of my courses has a midterm, how should I balance preparing for the seminars, preparing for the midterm and researching for the four major essays I have this semester?

5) I have involvement in a few volunteer programs, and I am involved in Model UN and the Political Science Association at my campus.  Should I drop some of the volunteer programs and solely focus on Model UN and my Political Science Association?

6) Is this sort of timetable where I have 3 seminars doable?

7) How can I have a moment to chill in this situation?",1,0,1378.0574703634118,college
Registrar asked for SSN?,"Basically I called and asked for transcript status? They asked for SSN and name, etc and I was dumb and gave it to her. She helped me send my transcript, but...

Now I realize how dumb this was. 

Am I fked? ",2,0,1379.3344263819301,college
An Unexpected Briefing : BITS Goa!,,0,0,1379.5027597152634,college
how does being a transfer student affect your social life ?,im transferring out of my community college at the end of my first year to a full four year univeristy and im worried i wont make any friends because ill be one year older than anyone . am i worrying for nothing or am i fucked socially.,7,0,1380.1945536967448,college
Messed up really bad,I'm a freshman currently and I really messed up my first semester (like 2 D's and a B). Are my chances of a higher education after a BS very slim? Should it be better to go to a local community college?,3,0,1383.2087087893376,college
How are my chances of getting into U Penn?,"High school junior here, sorry if you get a lot of these posts but I'm looking for some help. 

U penn (Wharton, specifically) is my top choice right now and I want to know how realistic it is for me to get accepted. I'd like to go into management business consulting if I can. I plan on applying to several other ivies, the Air Force academy, and IU as a safety.  

My résumé: I have a 3.86 uw and 4.07 w GPA, top 10% of my class of over 700 at a competitive hs. I've taken several AP/ advanced classes. I'm on the mock trial team, on a community board, will soon hold a leadership position in Interact club (youth rotary), I'm on the wrestling team (It's my first year, I'm on jv, probably won't ever be varsity), and I'm pretty involved in my church. I volunteer monthly at a soup kitchen but it's closing this month :( . Senior year I'll have a government-related internship though the school, won't know what it is specifically when I apply though. 

2060 SAT, plan to retake it, and I'm using a tutoring program that should help. Haven't taken ACT. I would say I have strong people skills and could interact well with recruiters. Low- average middle class family with few Ivy League connections. I'm hoping for need-based financial aid. 

**TL;DR- Is U Penn Wharton a pipe dream for me? Do I really have a chance at this level? Please be honest, advice needed!**",6,0,1387.8274124930413,college
How much does GPA actually matter?,"So its finals week, and with having 2 history classes and not bieng very good at history I am looking at getting a 2.8 this semester, which would pull my over all down to a 3.4. This will end up being the lowest GPA I've ever had in my life and I am sort of freaking out, therefore am wondering, how much does GPA actually matter in college.",6,0,1400.2579333263745,college
"Do I have a shot at Rice University, Vanderbilt, or Wash U in St.Louis?","GPA: 4.45
ACT:31
SAT: 2090
Eagle Scout
Essay: pretty good
",10,0,1436.0324009189671,college
Procrastination at College,Have you ever bought something or done something just so you feel better about procrastinating before an assignment deadline?,9,0,1446.4452134189671,college
College,"So basically I was a slacker in high school never got that good of grades hated classes just general teen things now I'm in college (I was forced to go by my mom totally regrets) I have math 201 and I have been going to class ,to be frank I have not leaned anything its not that I don't want to learn but I think I am incapable of learning this math, I have a midterm in 2 days and am now freaking out because I have no clue what to do to pass except try and study but I can't wrap my brain around any of these concepts any idea of what u should do would help thank you.",7,0,1449.2394842523004,college
I have a 4.05 GPA and a 33 ACT. What kind of schools could I get into?,"I'm applying to Michigan, IU, U of I Urbana Champaign, Northwestern, and UNC Chapel Hill. Any other schools I should plan on applying to? I want to major in either finance or economics.",5,0,1458.1121347152634,college
Is it risky studying business in college?,"I read somewhere that your chances of success are really low if you pursue business, is this true?",12,0,1467.0689634189673,college
"How many things do you typically have to bring to you to college, and what are they?",,4,0,1467.8149819374858,college
College Logic,It's pretty interesting that the adults that we require to make good choices in life and be independent are the same as the kids that had to ask permission to use the restroom just one year prior.,2,0,1499.1863129560043,college
Second day of college and I'm having an awful time,"I have barely been at college for 24 hours and I'm totally miserable..
This is for a number of reasons.

1. My cousin was inconsiderate and came on our family vacation with a cold last week. Like a really bad cold. He gave it to everyone. I'm no longer contagious but I can't stop coughing. If I was at home and nobody could here me it would be okay.. But it's really awful to not even be able to focus on the president's speech because I'm turning red faced trying not to have a coughing fit.

2. I woke up in the middle of the night, the very first night, with a wisdom tooth infection. This has happened before but this worse than ever. My face is swollen, I can't open my mouth all the way, it's extremely painful, and I can barely eat. To top it off the health office is closed and apparently they're never there anyway. I had to have my mom come out (we live 45min away) and drive me to urgent care to save myself from being taken in an ambulance and being billed for that. To top it off the only pharmacy that's open today is an hour away so my mother is taking care of that while I lay down. I'm missing SO much important orientation programming.

3. It's hot. It's really hot. Tuition is $60k per year and they can't even put in AC.

4. My room is over the dumpster so the trash guys were there doing there thing very loudly at 6am.

5. I was home schooled. Now, that's not really a problem. It's a good thing. Even though I was homeschooled I am still a very socially capable person and I've made a lot of friends since arriving here. However, people always talk about the ""freedom"" of college. I don't feel that. More than anything, I feel trapped. At home I was responsible for myself. Sure I still had scheduling and obligations when it came to my job and my flight training but I guess I felt like it was my choice. I could drive wherever whenever, and I just felt free.. and sort of in the adult world. Now I'm back at school. I'm a freshman but I'm a year older than everyone else (not a problem, so is one of my roommates) so most people are fresh out of high school and this *does* seem like freedom to them. Not to me though. I feel like I'm in jail. I feel like I'm being treated like a child again... It's weird after working with and associating with mostly adults for so long.

6. I don't even know if I want to be here. This was my dream school. It has a 27% acceptance rate and I got in. It offers incredible opportunities and it is like no other school out there. But.. this is an art school... and that's who I thought I was before, an artist. However, in the past few years I have discovered a love for aviation. I've been taking flight lessons and I'm finding it to be a huge passion.. I've even recently been considering it as a possible job. I'm *so* unreasonably sad to be away from that right now. I don't miss home, I don't miss my family that much, I miss flying. I feel like my head just isn't in the right place. Before flying I probably would have been excited to come and focus only on art. My now my eyes are just turned towards the sky on this beautiful day that would be perfect for flight. I have my aeronautics textbooks stored away in my dresser with the intent to read them in my free time but I'm quickly realizing that I will have zero free time. This is a very rigorous school.. Which is fine.. I just don't know if this is what I want my focus to be though.


Now, I don't believe that things happen for a reason. Not at all. I don't believe in ""signs"" either. However.. I'm almost on the verge of wondering if this is a ""sign"" that I shouldn't be here. I'm laying here in bed because my mouth is so swollen and painful that I can't even eat. I'm missing out on everything. Again, I don't believe in any of that nonsense. I think that it's our choice to read situations whichever way we read them.. but I guess this is how I'm reading it.

I could really use some advice.
",10,0,1501.3149009189672,college
"I asked a professor for a letter of recommendation. The professor said it was fine, but that they also wanted a resume. How do I do a resume?","Here's the email the professor sent:
Sure. Tell me who it should be addressed to. Also, send me your resume and tell me what you consider to be your strongest points and the best work you did in class. 

What do they mean by resume? Like a college resume? A work resume? I don't have a lot of items for a college resume.
",5,0,1502.165468048597,college
Suggestions for funny dorm room posters?,"I want a few ideas on funny posters to freak out my roomate (just  a little ) im already gonna print these on some glossy poster sized stock:
https://img0.etsystatic.com/033/1/5379000/il_570xN.603117296_9hu1.jpg

https://36.media.tumblr.com/460bf3dc0cbd0f32e393fdaaa0785eb1/tumblr_inline_nqfd7miOeG1twjqox_540.jpg

http://static.giantbomb.com/uploads/original/12/125895/1724622-luigi_poster.jpg

Any funny poster ideas that deal with nintendo, bill nye, science, or something similar? links to great Luigi pics is welcome.",1,0,1508.7519263819304,college
Ivy leagues,Is it really worth attending an Ivy League school and getting into debt?,6,0,1515.3199356411894,college
Getting accepted into a studying abroad program,"How difficult is it? I want to study abroad in Norway my junior year, and I'm about to start my sophomore year next month. I'm currently a student in the US who has a 3.4 GPA and am hoping to get into a Psychology program somewhere in Norway or New Zealand. It's too early to apply, but I'm pretty curious about this whole thing and want to know ASAP so I'll be ready by the time it comes to applying",3,0,1520.108292122671,college
Thoughts Every (Recent) College Grad Has Had,,0,0,1522.9671462893375,college
Is it bad that I'm probably going to end up taking 5 years to get my degree?,"Or even 6. I'm an undergrad who started in the spring. Currently in pre-nursing.

I have an Anatomy class I needed to take this fall. It was full but I got the override form and the proper signatures from the professor of the class and the dean so I could get in. I went to admissions to get my schedule and I was told I couldn't get in because I didn't have the proper pre-requisite (an english class). I was told that I could take that pre-requisite concurrently with Anatomy by the professor of the class. I told the admissions lady that, and she said that I wasn't able to do such a thing. So I ended up changing the class out for another pre-nursing class  I needed. I was pretty bummed out because the Anatomy class is only offered during the fall, and I also have to take another Anatomy class after that one. So that pushed me back a year from getting all my pre-nursing classes done so I could apply for the nursing program.

This happened a few months ago before the semester ended and now I'm told my a friend of mine who's also in pre-nursing that I *was* able to take that English class along with Anatomy. I checked my undergrad catalog and it was true that I was able to take them concurrently. So I got screwed over. Now there's only a week left before the semester starts and I'm not even sure I can get into the class anymore.

Is it necessarily a bad thing I'm going to end up taking this long?",3,0,1531.6485699004488,college
College Attendance in a Bubble? New Documentary,,0,0,1532.1082111041524,college
Should I study Computer Science or Engineering?,"I'm going into my sophomore year at college with a primary interest in computer science, so I've generally assumed I would end up studying computer science. I'm already ahead in the degree, opening up my schedule to explore other areas of interest too. It's also not a very intense degree at my school, but still well respected.

I don't have enough experience yet to know what I want to do, but I know I don't want to do web development, and the areas of CS that interest me most are the ones that are on the boundary of computer science and computer engineering. At this point most of the other areas of CS don't appeal to me nearly as much. I do have a strong interest in computer and electrical engineering and would definitely consider pursuing a degree in either if my school offered it.

My school only offers a general engineering degree, so I'd be taking classes in lots of areas I'm only mildly interested in. I can focus in computer or electrical engineering, but there's still all those other classes I don't necessarily think are worth my time taking. It's also by far the most burdensome degree at my school, though it's even more well respected than the CS degree. I may not be able to take many other classes, though I am already in a fairly advanced position in CS and I can probably take a class or two more in it.

So CS is just overall the more pleasant course of action. I could even take most of the engineering classes I'd want to take, but the problem is the difference between the degrees. I've heard that if I want to do a kind of CS-engineering mixed job, I would be much more qualified with an engineering degree than a CS degree. On top of that, if I decided to sway more into the engineering side of it, of course it would be better to have an engineering degree. And even if I decided to go into just CS, they like people with any technical degree and a strong CS background almost as much as CS majors. Basically, getting an engineering degree would open up so many more opportunities for me, from what I understand.

In that case I would go for the engineering degree, but I just feel weird taking a bunch of classes I don't really want. I understand why my school does that, because our theme is about getting a vast array of experiences in different areas, but I'm not sure how I feel about doing that when I could just get a CS degree.

I know this is really complicated and overall it's whatever I think is best for me, but does anyone have any input? Particularly regarding just how helpful getting a degree in engineering would be over a degree in CS?

Thanks!

EDIT: Also it's probably important to say that I'd probably want to work on a private research project. I will certainly not work in startups, and I'd prefer to avoid big tech companies like Facebook and Google unless I'm working on a small, side project of theirs.",5,0,1532.1233152708191,college
"After College, There's No More Waiting.",,0,0,1538.926255085634,college
Incoming freshman struggle,"This is my greatest personal struggle. It may sound like I have a lot but I get nothing for it. In school my reputation was never good and i felt really underappreciated. Despite the fact that I could perform mathematics and physics way better than anyone at school. Everybody thought that I had no common sense and that I was a pot head. Although I did smoke, drink, and other sorts of drugs. People always thought of me the wrong way. They were always like I was too honest or too cocky. People never gave the image I wanted them to see. Even my closest friends would have a hard time understanding what I said because of how i had a great passion for school. You could say people were jealous or that they were immature in that i saw that too many people got so much shit they didnt deserve. My feelings are all fucked up now in that i feel like i cannot function sometimes or sometimes i feel like im on top of the world. Its like i have 2 identities one in which im hella oriented and another in which i am retarded AF and cant get shit done. Idk what to think anymore sometimes. After high school ended when i graduated this year. The feelings of how i fucked up keep coming back from time to time and nobody seems to fucking understand. Everybody tells me that in college im going to have so much fun but the fact is idk what to believe anymore because of how things never go in my favor. I expected to have common courtesy and good understanding from others but i never get it. College feels like false hope to me sometimes because ive never felt how it feels to truly have fun, to truly get recognized, to truly br with people who i want to be with. It has all been a mystery to me. The question is how do i cope with these feelings.",3,0,1539.7383152708192,college
American Flag in Dorm room?,"Hi, so i am planning on putting up a huge american flag in my room. Its a triple but there was a error and only two guys are living in it (me and my roommate). Im 95% sure I want a flag in the room but if you have any opposing opinions please tell. 

My side of the room is 15 feet 10 in long. I was planning on putting it next to my bed which is 6 feet and 6 in long. Should I get a 6X10 flag or a 5X8 flag? or maybe even smaller? Thanks in advance:)",13,0,1547.704611567115,college
UVA admissions!,"I know being a ""Public Ivy"" and all it's more selective than other state schools, but really is there a chance that as a foreign girl with low income and average grades and hopefully good essays I could land myself a spot? Also, if it helps, I'm getting a recommendation from a professor there so does that boost my chances?",4,0,1555.7930374930413,college
Do you mind evaluating my college list/academic profile?,"Hi, everyone! I'm a rising junior at the moment, and I was just hoping to get some insight on where I'm planning to apply/my academic profile thus far. I know it's probably a bit too early to have a definite list of colleges, but I'm eager to a fault, I guess. Anyway, thank you to everyone who takes a gander at this; I really appreciate it.

-:-

I live in Florida, I'm a white female, and my GPA is 3.26 UW/3.3 W (I know, it's not great). My freshman year was horrible. Without going into excess detail, I've dealt with anxiety and depression for the better part of the past 5 years, and it hit an all time low during my freshman year. My freshman GPA was something like 1.88 UW/2.0 W. As you can see, though, I made a HUGE turnaround this past year. I took a break from traditional high school, and instead, I did my sophomore year online, and I ended with a 3.82 UW/3.88 W GPA. Also in my freshman year (2013), I took the PSAT, and I got a 199 composite score (56 M, 69 CR, 74 W). I don't think this score, apart from the Writing score, is indicative of my true ability, for aforementioned reasons. I'm planning on taking multiple SAT II tests as well: World History, U.S. History, and Literature.

The only honors-level course I've taken so far is English 1 Honors, but my schedule for this upcoming year includes APUSH, English 3 Honors, and Anatomy & Physiology Honors. My projected courses for senior year include AP Literature and AP Language (my school combines them into one course, taken senior year), AP U.S. Government and Politics, AP Macroeconomics, and AP Statistics. I'm considering self-studying AP Psychology as well. Also, when I graduate high school, I'll most likely have 6 math credits.

-:-

My parents are separated, and we have no contact with my dad, so I haven't been able to participate in as many extracurriculars as I would have otherwise, because I've had to dedicate a significant amount of my free time to helping my mother take care of my younger sister. However, in my freshman year, despite all of the things going on, I managed to found and later be elected president of a Gay-Straight Alliance at my high school. I was also a pretty active thespian; I participated in our drama club, coordinated club-wide volunteer opportunities, and performed in a local theater's production of Annie, Jr. I've also dedicated a pretty substantial amount of my time to teaching myself Adobe applications and CSS/HTML/JavaScript. Otherwise, I can't say I've been the most involved student. I'm looking to change that, though, over the rest of the summer and this next school year. I'm going back to traditional high school, so my plan is to rejoin the GSA I started, rejoin the drama club, start volunteering at our local domestic violence outreach, join our school's Future Problem Solvers chapter, and potentially join our school's Key Club.

-:-

Now for my actual schools!

My top pick is **Washington University in St. Louis**.

In alphabetical order, the other colleges I'm looking at applying to are:

* Barnard College
* Brown University
* Bryn Mawr University
* Flagler College (my mother earned her degree from here)
* Tulane University

I know I'm not likely (at all) to get into Brown, but it's more of a sentimental thing. When I was younger (like 8 or 9), I was set on getting into Brown, so I guess now I think I would be cheating my younger self to not at least give it a shot.

Anyway, I would really appreciate it if I could get some opinions on the colleges I'm looking at, my current academic profile, my future plans I mentioned, etc. 

If you don't think these colleges are good fits for me, what are some that you would recommend I look at? I want to double-major in History and Women's studies, and I'd prefer a school in a suburban/urban setting (do I sound like a walking, talking BigFuture College Search?), but otherwise, I'm not super picky. All of the schools here ARE private, but I wouldn't be opposed to checking out a public school.",1,0,1570.68880138193,college
Drinking in College (Newbie status),"Okay, so I know this may sound unbelievable or even a little stupid, but I'm going into college this year without ever having had more than a sip of alcohol. I've decided to wait tilll college to begin drinking and was seeking some advice on how it really is in college. I look young af so I could never pass for 21. I know I can get a fake ID, but the idea just seems so sketch tbh. I'm honestly just a noob and just wanna hear what you guys have to say about drinking and parties etc. What drinks do you like, which do you hate? Let me know!",9,0,1580.9633731411893,college
CMU or UC Berkeley for CS,"Hi, I'm trying to choose between CMU and UC Berkeley for a computer science/mathematics double major. Both are very nice choices and I know I cannot go wrong with any one of them. I have until May 1st to choose. Please help!",5,0,1636.258338418967,college
Stanford Vs. Harvey Mudd,"Hello! I have been accepted to both Harvey Mudd College and Stanford University to major in mechanical engineering, and I am still trying to decide on which college to attend. I have attended the Admitted Student Program at Harvey Mudd, and I will be attending the Admit Weekend at Stanford in few days.

For a short introduction, My name is Matt, and I am an 18 year old from southern California. I'm a fairly social person, but I tend to like small (3-6) groups more than large parties of people. Because of this, I would rather have a small group of close friends than have a large group of friends that I do not know as well. Also for comparison, my high school graduating class is about the size of Harvey Mudd's total class, so I am a bit more used to large schools.

 I have been searching online for weeks for a direct comparison of Stanford and Harvey Mudd's programs, but I cannot find very much unbiased information. I tend to think of both colleges as being pretty equal, which is making me a bit indecisive about where I want to go. The only somewhat major difference that may affect my decision is the fact that after considering all scholarships and financial aid, at Stanford I would have to pay ~$5000 more per year.

What are your opinions on what might be the ""better"" college for me both academically and socially?



",7,0,1642.0664981411892,college
Notre Dame vs. Emory Vs. USC?,"Planning for BBA, specifically finance or accounting. Emory Business School is ranked the highest (21st USNewS and 9th Bloomberg) with USC and Notre Dame Mendoza ranking at 25th (USNews). Tuition is not a decision factor because they will all cost about the same. However, Emory is located in Atlanta Georgia. My friends tell me it's one of the more dangerous places to live in the States. As an International Student with little to no US experience, I'm in a struggle to decide which school to enroll. Is Georgia safe to live? Any tips?",5,0,1642.372366196745,college
"stressed out, how to handle it?","College freshman. Decided to take a 16 hour credit semester..anyways I am trying to get a 4.0 this semester as I got a 3.5 last semester.
I have been under a lot of work this past weeks and constantly having to rewrite essays and do extra credits even when my grade is a B+ on the assignment 

I have this class in particular that I did good on and have always done the assignment  on time.. But today I totally forgot.

It was due at midnight, and I did it at 2 am, I sent an email to my teacher explaining her my worries and that I really care shot my grades and that  if there was anything I could do I would do it.

Anyways the assignment  would make the difference between a A- in the class and an A.

How do I get over my stress? If she says no there is nothing I can do. ",12,0,1643.6743337893377,college
"Math professor offended me, it's rather distracting.","Hello /r/college! So to cut a long story short I'm taking a Math course in a Computer Science faculty. We had a programming task to turn a couple of equations into a program that can solve them. Working in teams, since there were 4 of us, and 4 of the equation we split them up. We finished our codes and went to the professor for the discussion.

The program ran quite well, there were a couple of hiccups but nothing serious. Then the professor called for me. I was the only guy in the team and I decided to stay slightly back and let one of our teammates talk to the professor since the room was quite small and it was her laptop anyway. He asked what I did, and I explained that we split up the task and I took part x. He then asked me to show him part x and I did. I wasn't sure what to do, but apparently he was expecting me to say more, I then asked if I should explain the functions I did. It's all rather direct and I didn't have much trouble saying what does what, I did forget a couple of terms though and had to recall a couple of stuff. Then all of a sudden I find him accusing me that I copied the code from someone and just learned it. At that moment I was shocked, everything I submit is out of my own sweat and blood. Even if I ""copy"" anything, I usually defer to answers from the book, or similar examples that I follow. In the case of programming, everything I write is my own ideas. I learned what I needed to from the course book and translated them into the code, and that's what I replied to him with. Frankly I got really flustered and couldn't focus properly for the rest of the discussion.

In the end, we all got full marks, but I still feel really offended if that's what my professor thinks of me. Some guy who just copies other people's work. I realize that I may have let myself get easily offended- and that probably worse happens in ""real"" life, but I just can't seem to shake it off... Any suggestions? ",10,0,1671.553419437486,college
REALLY confused... [X-Post from /r/applyingtocollege],"I'm taking a year off after I finish high school this year, and since I thought I wasn't gonna go to college, I never really paid attention to anything about it. Now I've decided to go after I take a year long break, and I've decided to attend an online college. I want to [major in psychology.](http://www.reddit.com/r/AcademicPsychology/comments/2y3wcg/i_want_to_major_in_psychology_and_get_the_highest/)

How do I go about applying when the time comes? When would be a good time to apply? How can I decided which schools I want to go to? And I'm confused about which schools would be good, because of the explanations people gave me on my thread I've linked to above. I'm confused because I still really don't know what graduate/undergraduate schools are, etc.

I also never took the SAT, so I know I'll have to do that, as well as apply for FAFSA. How do I do that?

Also... I always said if I go to college I would always start at my local community college, but now I'm not so sure - Would it be good to start there, or should I go right to a four-year school? What schools will be good for me which I could get a psychology degree in? Do online colleges have academic advisors who I could email with any other questions?

Thanks in advance.",4,0,1686.147343048597,college
Has anyone here changed majors without telling their parents or family? How did they react when they found out?,,10,0,1720.1844611041522,college
I will never pass math and earn my BA,"Anyone else feel this way? I am a senior political science major and I am currently taking my fourth semester of math...my degree only requires one. Since I couldn't score high enough on my ACT to take regular math, I'm taking ""bonehead"" math. That's when math is split into two semesters. I passed the first half my first semester, but I'm currently retaking the second half...for the THIRD time.

I've been taking math for half of my college career. TWO YEARS to earn ONE. FUCKING. CREDIT.

I'm supposed to graduate this fall. Supposed to. I'll probably fail math again. I failed math in 5th grade which landed me in remedial math. I failed it again in 8th grade, which landed me in summer school. In 9th, 10th, and 11th grade, I passed with D's because my teachers liked me. My senior year of high school, I was able to take conceptual math instead of trig and I earned a C. I've been denied NUMEROUS FUCKING SCHOLARSHIPS because I'm bad at math. I'd have a full fucking ride if I didn't earn a 29 on the math portion of my ACT. I just needed a 30 for Promise. Go figure. Sure, I earned within the top 5% of test-takers in my state for the rest of the ACT test, but what really matters is earning a 30 on math to get a scholarship.

I'm sick of people telling me to go to the professor or go to a tutor. You think I haven't done that shit in the two years I've been stuck in basic math? You think I haven't spent late nights doing my labs? I've been to the tutors. I've asked my professor for out-of-class help. I spent an hour a night with one of my best friends studying for finals. Which, by the way, at my school if you get below a 60% on any math final, you fail the class, no matter what you get in the class overall. I'd have passed my last math class with a B if that policy weren't in place.

This is bullshit. Math is bullshit. My essays have been used as models for other students. I've tutored in my subject. My favorite English professor had one of my term papers published in a literary journal. I can't pass math despite working my fucking ass off more than I ever have in my life for a basic fucking algebra credit. And I still can't earn it. I'm literally one fucking credit away for my degree, but I'll probably never graduate college because of it. I'll probably drop math this semester and focus on it in 2016. Just ONE LAST CLASS to pass for that year. I'll probably be spending a whole semester on it, but I'm ready if it means it'll be the final nail in the math coffin.

Can anyone else stand with me here in saying ""fuck math?""",6,0,1723.6781995300782,college
Am I the only one who wants to party?,I swear I'm the only one who wants to party. There's no parties where I go to school and when I go on the internet all I see is people who think they're the only one who doesn't want to party. Am I truly alone in my desire to party?,9,0,1726.6557574004487,college
Can C.L. Max Nikias Turn USC into the Stanford of Southern California? (x-post from /r/USC),,0,0,1747.8067874930414,college
Do I have a case here?,"Basically, I'll have my categorical requirements for my degree fulfilled at the end of my senior year, but I'll be short on total hours.

**I'm fully aware that this happens at many universities across the country, and I accept my fate as things stand. This isn't a DAE thread.**

I am considering going before the school's higher ups to appeal this. My basic platform would be ""If a student's major, minor and core categorical requirements have been fulfilled, but that student is short of the required 120 (or whatever it is for your school) credit hours for graduation, that student may still graduate.""

I'm also fully aware that they have this set up to pull more money out of kids that have to stay longer. Personally, they'll be paying me more than they charge to stay and take useless classes, so it'll come as a net loss to them.

For context, I'm a Junior.",20,0,1765.3178060115597,college
"Applying to Upenn and other colleges, could someone please proof read my essay?","Hey guys, this is my first ever reddit post and I really hope you guys go easy on me. I'm an international student from Pakistan who will be applying to Upenn and a few other liberal arts colleges like Haverford and Bates. I've got pretty good grades and decent SAT scores, it's just the common app essay which is really worrying me. Would anyone please volunteer to proofread it and tell me what they think?
Let me know if you're interested and I'll PM or email it to you.",2,0,1767.0637666597079,college
Breaking down the three ways student loans are forgiven,,5,0,1775.7968569374857,college
Political Science Final Help,"So I'm taking a Political Science course. The class is mostly based around the readings. I have an A average at the moment because I am good at writing essays, however I have a final exam coming up and I haven't read any of the three books. The books are not on Sparknotes. I also have only gone to half the lectures.",7,0,1783.1087203634117,college
How well do my credentials stack up as a freshman applicant to UCLA? Would they be better suited to a different school?,"I'm from Washington and UCLA is my goal school, where I plan to major in Business Economics. As application deadlines draw close, I'm probably over-stressing myself by making sure it's perfect.. I guess this thread is just to assuage my worries a little bit. Anyways, here's a little mini-application to look over if anyone wants to help. Thanks!


Preemptive TL;DR: Above average GPA with solid(?) extracurriculars that focus on creative (audiovisual) pursuits.


ACADEMICS:

- 3.6 Unweighted GPA (this is the weak point of the application)

- 4.0 Weighted GPA/4.09 fully weighted UC GPA

- Video Production/Visual arts/Music centered electives

- 1990 or 1970 SAT. I'm not sure which to send - the higher score is 600CR/690M/700W but the lower is 690CR/680M/600W which is essentially the opposite. Does UCLA care more for critical reading or writing?
- 21 AP/Honors semesters 9th-12th grade (17 from 10th-12th)


AWARDS:

- AP Scholar with Honor (earned for receiving a score of 4.5 across 4 AP tests)
- National Merit Scholar Commended Student (earned for receiving a 216 on the NMSQT, the second highest score in my class)


COMMUNITY SERVICE:

- YoungLife Leader (~9 hrs/week between meeting and planning)

- National Honor Society (3 years)

- 3-time facilitator/MC of the Game of Life (local annual community event ran by the police department & youth members to teach kids/teen about safety/prevention/etc.) 


WORK EXPERIENCE:

- Event Staff/Supervisor at Clowns Unlimited (Washington company that organizes events/parties and rents out rides)

- Freelance/Self-employed Audio Engineer (Audio engineering has been my hobby for years and I've assembled a very nice studio in my basement where I rent out studio time and mix raw audio from people around the country, for a price)


EXTRACURRICULARS:

- S.T.U.D.I.O Club - This is the high point of my application. Because of my passion for music and music production, I started a club to teach musicians about sound engineering and how to create a marketable image for themselves. Through this, I have headed the creation of a campus radio station where we play members' songs in rotation with ""real"" studio-produced songs. There are high and realistic hopes that this club will turn into a real, for-credit class next year after I graduate.

- News anchor/editor for my school's video announcements

- Member of the Kent Police Youth Board (youth members of the local Police Department, participate in community service and education like the Game of Life I mentioned earlier)

- DECA (1 year, my event is individual retail merchandising)

- First-chair upright bass player in orchestra (2 years)

- **ALSO** I'm planning to do a school musical either this winter or upcoming spring. I shouldn't write about this in my app preemptively, should I?


PERSONAL STATEMENT:

I'm a strong writer (700 SAT writing score) so I think I got this covered with some editing help from my AP English teacher. However, any advice would be great!


TL;DR: Above average GPA with solid(?) extracurriculars that focus on creative (audiovisual) pursuits.


Thanks for anyone willing to read my mini-application! Let me know if there are any questions/things I left out/etc.",20,0,1793.9361277708192,college
A subreddit for Montgomery College(MD),,1,0,1809.970178696745,college
"Thoughts on my college list, and maybe some recommendations on where to apply?","I'm a student in Georgia with a 3.91 weighted GPA (my school only weights AP courses, not honors or accel), and an estimated 3.75 unweighted GPA because I'm too lazy to calculate it right now. I have taken 5 APs through my junior year and will graduate with 7. 

My ACT composite is a 34. Math 32, english 34, reading 35, and science 36, and an 8/12 on the writing.

My class rank is around 27%, because I go to one of the best public high schools in the state. 

I have some solid ECs, my highlights being an internship at my local hospital's ED, and being the founder and leader of my high school's rugby club for 3 years.

I'm one of those upper-middle class kids who is well off enough not to need any financial aid, and is going to receive some help from my parents, but I'm still going to be paying the brunt of my college. So I'm definitely factoring in lucrative scholarships to my search.
 
My college list is pretty sparse right now. Any suggestions are welcome. I'm really not sure where I want to go yet.

Reach: Tulane, and maybe Emory

Middle: U of Georgia (full tuition)

Safety: U of Alabama (full tuition), Temple (full tuition)


",12,0,1824.8423777708192,college
/r/ College. I'm looking to attend university in Germany as an American. How do I make this happen?,  Need guidance on what I will need to do to make this dream a reality aside from studying german of course.,9,0,1828.9256995300782,college
My roommate found a master key for our entire floor. (Story inside),"First off, I have three other roommates in a suite-style dorm. We'll call them Jeremy, Josiah, and Christopher.
So, Friday Josiah said that he came back to find our room unlocked with a key in the door, so he just put the key inside anticipating someone to come back and ask for it. Little did he know that the key was the master key for the entire fourth floor. Fast forward to yesterday, Labor day, Josiah had gone home for the weekend, so it was just me, Jeremy, and Chris. We were just hanging out in the commons area of our dorm when I noticed the key sitting on the table. I wondered what it was, so I asked, but neither of them knew of its origins (we didn't ask Josiah about it until after he got back late Monday night.). We all thought it was a normal key, until we took it and unlocked all of our private rooms with it. Jeremy took the key at one point, unlocked another suite, but locked it back quickly (none of us wanted him to.) But after all of that was over we took it to our RA. he claimed that he didn't recognize the key because the master keys for the RA's apparently look different. 

I have a few questions:

Did we do the right thing by taking it to the RA?

could it have been a maintenance crew or something?

Should I be worried that there might be copies of that key and someone is going into the dorms on their own free will?",12,0,1871.7355259189674,college
Advice/info for a future international student.,"Hi I am from Sweden and want to study at a community college in California. So far I really like Santa Barbara city college, sounds like a very good school and a fun town. I love partying and meeting new people, I also love beaches. Although, I don't want to lay all of my eggs in one basket so I want to apply to at least another community college aswell. What CC do you guys recommend?
Am aiming for a masters degree in engineering by the way Any information or advice is highly appreciated.",8,0,1875.478303696745,college
"Am I crazy, or is something weird going on with my department? Really, am I crazy?","I'm a junior who was supposed to start nursing school next week. Except I'm not. My department is screwing me over. The problems started in the fall. I had taken all of my prerequisite classes but two, and you needed permission numbers to get in to the classes. I did everything I was supposed to do, and my advisor said ""oh, we'll send you the numbers next week."" But she didn't. Then, the next week, I emailed and she told me I would have to wait for grades to post, and the next week she told me to wait for some processing. Then the school closed for Christmas. When it opened back up, I emailed and emailed and emailed, and then the classes were all full. So I had to spend my time and money taking a chemistry class instead of what I was supposed to be taking. Well, I called to complain, and the advisor had left a few days before. I had no advisor for 2 months. Well, it was all okay, because I could just take the classes that summer. The next problem happened when I was supposed to get my acceptance to nursing school. My school has a policy that qualified students who started out as a freshman have automatic acceptance. I qualified and was guaranteed by my old advisor that I would get in. Then, come April, I didn't. I called my advisor, and she didn't answer. I tried to make an appointment, but she was booked up. I even called the dean of the department, who sent me straight back to my advisor. Finally, I got an email saying that she had a cancellation and she'd meet with me. I actually got my parents to go with me, because they obviously don't listen to me, so I thought they'd listen to someone who paid the tuition. Well, we finally got her to look at it, and surprise! There had been a clerical error and I was supposed to be admitted. Well, I got admitted two days later. Now I had to get the permission numbers for summer. I had to email almost every day for two weeks before she finally let me have them, the day before class starts. Well, my classes started for the summer, and I started struggling with one of them. Now, I'll just say that my grades have never been perfect, but if I'm not doing well, I won't go down without a fight. So I went to her office every week asking for tips, studied for 2 hours every day, went to every class. Then my homeworks and quizzes started disappearing off of Blackboard. Like it never happened. I'd taken them and made good grades, but they were not even showing up. It was ridiculous. I asked her for study tips all the time, talked to my (different) advisor several times, worked really really hard. But I only made it out with a 72. (Nursing classes consider a 74 or lower failing.) Now I'm a semester behind. So I called my advisor, who sent me to my old pre-nursing advisor to get the permission numbers ONCE AGAIN. It's been a week, and I still haven't heard back. 

I know that I'll sound crazy for this, but I think they're trying to get me to drop out. Withholding permission numbers, rejecting me from the school? I think they're trying to weed me out because I only have a 3.0 GPA when most of the other kids have a 4.0. We have one of the highest employment rates (97% of graduates have job offers before they even graduate) in the state. It's like they take the kids who are most likely to fail, and make them fail before they can mess up our statistics. I know that failing the class was on me, but everything else feels so out of my control. I feel like they're just playing me like a marionette! Am I crazy?

TL;DR: Feel like department is trying to weed me out through immoral means before I start the program. Also might be paranoid.",2,0,1889.7120074004488,college
The 10 Most Beautiful College Campuses In America,,0,0,1898.969218048597,college
Is a Macbook Air good enough for mechanical engineering?,I'll be studying at University of Maryland. I really like the fact that it is super lightweight. I'm just unsure if the specs will be good enough for my major. Thanks for any help!,12,0,1903.9719726782264,college
Advice for a Junior in high school!,"Hello! I am currently a junior in high school. I did pretty bad my freshmen and sophmore year (2.1 freshmen, 2.3 sophmore) and I failed a few classes but I did take all AP and honors classes. This year I did pretty decent (3.2) and I passed my AP bio and AP lit exams with 4s! 


I got a 24 on my ACT as well. I'm thinking of going to Wayne State University to major in physics/astronomy or history/English.



How does my situation look right now?",3,0,1971.1035120300783,college
A question regarding GPA and excess credits.,I am required to complete 33 credit hours to graduate from my program. I have 3 credits in excess. Is it technically possible to force my University to wipe/disregard the 3 credits (which correspond to an F) that brought down my GPA? I've had this discussion with my department chair before and he refused. I am not allowed to graduate until  i get a 3.0 GPA and that class I failed at is not offered next semester. Am i being duped my the college or is the practice of not allowing you to opt out a few excess credits from consideration the standard practice in USA?,7,0,1987.2108731411895,college
Is a Mac Mini good for a college student?,"My major is biology. I dont take any multimedia classes nor am I a big photo taking person....I do play some Music.




2.3GHz quad-core Intel Core i7
4GB memory
1TB hard drive1
Intel HD Graphics 4000
OS X Mavericks


4GB memory
1TB hard drive 
Thunderbolt port (up to 10 Gbps)
HDMI port supports multichannel audio output
Intel HD Graphics 4000
intel core i7

what is the difference between the 2 mac minis I have posted?

I will mainly be using it for writing papers, research and studying.

I already have a laptop I will take to school and use at the library.

",6,0,1994.1073083263748,college
College decision help?,"Hello, I'm off the wait list for ""Sarah Lawrence college"" and I've heard it's pretty good for an all-rounded liberal arts education. There're quite some cons to the college, the them being: 

* It's sole focus is on the liberal arts- no business courses and economics courses are not focused on business. I plan on going into business in the future.(Not only business- I also plan on going into creative writing: Prose and poetry and studying literature and philosophy)  

* The price of this college is quite expensive, even though money isn't a problem, but I'm having second thoughts about it's worth.

I either have the decision of staying back in India(international student here btw) and attending a university which isn't all that bad(It has everything I want) and it's founders are well known prestigious Indian entrepreneurs and academics. 

What do you guys think I should do? I'm open to any advice!",14,0,1995.3210120300782,college
Algrebra,"Okay, um. I'm a high school senior close to graduating in a few months. My favorite subject is math but it's the subject I feel I'm most lacking in. I took Algebra 1 in 8th grade and it was fairly difficult to me due to both me not understanding it and my lazy nature. I got placed into Pre-Geometry in 9th (because the actual Geo class was too full) so I basically took a year 'preparing' for Geometry. 10th grade came and I was placed in Geometry and I flew through the course with the same lazy nature I had but everything just clicked when it came to Geo. 11th, I was placed into Algebra 2 / Trigonometry and this time, I was placed into the class a few weeks after the year started. So I hadn't done algebra in 3 years basically and I was behind everyone else. I struggled through Algebra 2 not understanding many things (and still don't) but when the Trig semester came, I flew through it like I did with Geo. I came to the conclusion I'm better with Geo and Trig but Algebra gives me a harder time. I tried going online for some help on math websites and I understood SOME stuff I didn't before but still some stuff did not stick. 

Now the question is, should I work on refining these skills in preparation for college? Will all of them be necessary right off the bat in my first year or will they sort of review it (which could help me understand more)? I know this is probably a weird question but any help would be appreciated. Thank you.

And I apologize if this really doesn't belong here.",17,0,2001.845826844893,college
Closest time to apply to college?,"I am sorry for my ignorance, but I have to go to university this year because of some circumstances and I wasn't planning to do so before. I do IGCSEs and wish to apply in the US, when is the closest time to apply and go there because the sites confuse me. I have to apply as soon as possible. Thank you. ",3,0,2029.4674124930414,college
"Resident Advisors, How do you like your position?","I just got the position a few days ago, but I'm a little bit nervous taking such a challenging position as a sophomore. So I just want to know how you like the job? What are the best/ worst aspects? Thanks!",5,0,2038.0896347152634,college
"How to answer the scholarship question ""List or describe your academic achievements and goals""?",Please help me if you have received scholarships using an amazing answer to this question. Please be as detailed as possible. I am a terrible writer and not creative whatsoever. I need some sort of outline to use to go over this.,3,0,2056.1380490671154,college
What do you prefer traditional or suite style dorms?,"I am going to be a college freshmen next year, but currently I am in the process of dorm selection. What type of dorm would you suggest? I am relatively social, and am a male. 

Thank you in advanced.",7,0,2067.1140675856336,college
Political Science,what kind of jobs are open to political science majors?,3,0,2072.3275861041525,college
Nosey roommate,"I'm a freshman in college and I guess my question is, how do you deal with a nosey roommate? I've tried talking with him and he denies it constantly and I've even caught him in the act but he just tried to play it off like it was an accident or he was just looking for something.  I'm sure this sounds like a really dumb question but I'm just looking for guidance from some older more level headed individuals who've been there and done that. I've dealt with anger issues in the past and I've come a long way from then and I don't wanna ruin all of this progress because this snoop won't stay the hell out of my stuff. I'm just finding myself feeling paranoid because I know my clothes are moved around or my sheets are different because...yep you guessed it! The SOB lays in my bed... Keep in mind his bed is maybe 2 feet away yet he feels compelled to hop in mine while I'm in class or at practice. Any advice would be appreciated, I just don't want to be immature and I want to deal with this issue in the best way possible because I still gotta live with the guy for a few more months.",5,0,2074.7566254560043,college
"Do I need to submit the FAFSA first, and THEN apply to colleges, or can I apply to colleges first while getting the information for the FAFSA?","Unsure of how this works, thanks. ",5,0,2076.844264344893,college
"Any university administers here, what are some scholarships that I can take advantage of?","I go to a early college high school, and I get a associates with my GED. I'm set in either being a lawyer or doctor training to be a anthesialogist ",1,0,2080.1288476782265,college
"Collegians of Reddit, if I get my Bachelor's in both Journalism and Anthropology, can I get my Master's in Zoology or another field pertaining to animals?",,2,0,2086.283951844893,college
Hillsborough community college pre req questions,"Long story short I just had to withdraw from a general math pre req (mat 0028) for the 3rd time, just cant pass it as math is my weak point and supposely without this I cant continue to pursue my degree however I have been able to sign up for other non pre req classes as long as one of them was the pre req math, so could I keep trying that to pursue other courses or I was wondering could I take a placement test such as the PERT or CPT until I pass? Would go to a financial advisor but if u have ever been to HCC u knw why I rather try asking here first.",3,0,2095.785224993041,college
First year about to fail out of college and it's my own fault--need help and advice,"I feel absolutely terrible about this but more than that I feel terrified. 
I am 19 and I've never been a strong student responsibility wise, I mean, I know that I'm smart, but laziness, procrastination and a self depreciative fear of success worked towards me barely making it by as I did in highschool, two failed classes, no tuition money due to my student loans not being released because of mistakes in the banking information. I've been trying to get a hold of the national student loans service but I only woke up to what was about to happen a few days ago and school starts tomorrow so they've been busy with thousands of students and I can't reach them. Because of that they've withheld any courses from me. I still have a chance but only if I can hand in several assignments and secure the student loan in time--I don't know if there is enough time.

The worst part is that I've had so many opportunities to fix this, to get myself and my old self depreciative feelings together. Proffs have reached out to me and given me dozens of chances and the student Loans Services have called my house almost everyday for the last 4 months-- there really is no excuse other than that I messed up. I wasn't used to being responsible for myself and I made little effort to try to, also placing other things above school work.

I want to fix this before it becomes one of the lowest points of my life. I want to believe I've learned my lesson and that if given another chance, even though I've had so many before, I can make things right for myself. 

Please, any advice would be greatly appreciated. Thanks for reading",1,0,2110.2870305485967,college
"Almost college student, freaking the freak out!","Alright, reddit. I've lurked on here for about a month or two and I've come to the conclusion that the community here is for the most part really helpful.

But anyways, I'm looking for some help in deciding a major. I live in Michigan, and plan to go to a community college before transferring to a bigger university (Wayne State). I'm moving out when I turn 18 with my boyfriend (who I have been in a relationship for two year counting) due to some family issues with my stepmother, so I would really like to get some ideas and help so I can figure out what direction I should be heading into.

I really like studying sex. I know, it sounds weird coming from a 17 year old, but it's true. I love all the aspects of it. I also love teaching people my age about their bodies, and how their bodies can interact safely with other peoples' bodies. My first spark of interest in this topic was in health class when I realized my sex education was being given a pamphlet of STI/STD names and told to research them (typically fear-based abstinence-based education). I also like Biology. Two of my favorite YouTubers are Dr. Doe and Laci Green. I've been leaning towards a Bachelor of Arts in Biology (I don't do well with advanced mathematics so this is the best option for me I hope.)

So, Reddit, would you be willing to help me out? I really just need advanced because I have NO IDEA what to do and a lot of people I've talked to are weirded out by my interest in sex from a health/science perspective. I'm not opposed to teaching H.S Biology, but I'm just not sure whether the job market for that field will be increasing like Health and Technology careers are supposed to be.",3,0,2110.889356937486,college
"Here's our jungle juice recipe for a party coming up, any critiques/advice?","2 60s of cheapo vodka (40%)

1 60 of Bacardi (40%)

3 bottles of wine (any combo of white and red, we have a ton)

3 2-litres of sprite

1 jug of apple juice

2 containers of drink mix (lemonade and cherry koolaid)

8 or so cans of red bull

Some diced fruit (strawberries, etc)

We also have a 40 of cheap-o whisky but I don't think we want it anywhere near the jungle juice

Any advice, subtractions, additions?",1,0,2116.944553696745,college
"College Students of Reddit, is a 3.38 GPA as a first semester freshman decent?","Please be honest, because I am hoping to transfer to UVA for the fall semester from George Mason University.

Average transfer GPA is 3.5, and I'm just sitting here currently freaking out with a 3.38. Hopefully I can raise it second semester and just hope it will factor in an admission decision.
",22,0,2128.3759310115597,college
"Those first semester feels...Google, you're not helping.",,0,0,2130.807204159708,college
Is 3.4/3.6 GPA Good for FIRST Semester of College for Pre-Med Major?,"Hey, it's my first semester and I'm nervous. I had a tough time with Psych, the professor was brutal, but I managed to pick up fast. I already have credits from my English 12 AP (5/5) and AP Euro (4/5). I took Bio 101 Lecture/Lab, Political Science, Algebra, and Psych. I have an A in Bio Lab, and an A in Bio Lecture, and an A in PoliSci, a B in Math, and for Psych, I could get a C or B (taking the Final tomorrow and that's what will decide), bringing my GPA to either a 3.4 or 3.6. Is this GPA range good for a first Semester student in the Pre-Med field? Next Semester I'm taking Anatomy and Physiology, Inorganic Chemistry, and PreCalc, and I'm shooting for all A's since I have a good work ethic now. After that I'll be transferring (hopefully) to a University. Please, Redditors in college/university/working world, help me out?! Any advice is incredibly welcome.",12,0,2136.8323546226707,college
I know I'm only in 8th grade but I'm still having a bit of stress over how exactly I can ensure that I'll get into a good art college.,"I have no idea how college works, or what I need to do to get into one. I know that usually art schools don't require outstanding academics or anything like that, but I want to go to the Art Institute, or FullSail. Colleges like that. What can I do to make art schools want me in their schools and do colleges like that send out letters? I know there is a subreddit for this but it has one post from 4 months ago in it, so...",10,0,2137.9549472152635,college
My Open Letter to School Administrators re:A disgusting viral video asking FSU football fans if they prefer Nice Guys or Assholes,,1,0,2170.0535004560043,college
time to drop out,,4,0,2178.9072504560045,college
Any kind of advice would be appreciated!,"I am a freshman in university and I am just 16. I am finding it really hard to fit in, everyone is so old and most people speak Arabic here(UAE). I am Turkish if anyone was wondering. Can someone please give me advice to fit in and just not look awkward as fuck. It feels like I am on reddit IRL like I just observe and never talk(make posts or comments), I am scared to say something wrong. I had no problems like this in high school :c",6,0,2181.6663245300783,college
College help,"Hello I am 14 years old and learning to Program. so I just started high school and I really want to become some sort of programmer in the future. so what I really need help is what should I do to help with college is there some good classes that I can take that will help me, and what colleges are good for this? is there any other things i should know? 
~thanks",3,0,2184.8834310115594,college
I am an Australian looking to go to college in the states next year which college should i go to?,"Hi Reddit. I am a 22 year old Australian male who is looking to go to college in the states next year for a year. I have to submit preferences for which college I want to go to at the end of the month. basically I want to know which of these colleges do you think will give me the best experience in terms of college life, partying, college sport and just general school spirit and fun.

TL;DR
Going to America want to party in college, wheres best to go.

options:
North Carolina State University,
University at Buffalo – SUNY,
University of Missouri – Columbia,
University of Nebraska – Lincoln,
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
University of Oklahoma
",6,0,2192.4818106411894,college
Free College Essay Webinar covering: common application essay tips. Register and win $200 free essay edit.,"October 19, 2013 3:00 PM- 4:00PM PST https://meet65556780.adobeconnect.com/commonapp/event/registration.html

October 26, 2013 11:00AM- 12:00PM PST https://meet65556780.adobeconnect.com/ucccommonapp/event/registration.html",0,0,2192.976139344893,college
MIT Chances,"**WARNING. SEMI-BRAGGING ALERT.**
You have been warned.

I'm a senior in high school, and I'm applying EA to MIT.  I really want to study mechanical engineering there, and when I visited campus, I basically fell in love with the place.  I've done well consistently throughout school, on the SATs, but I didn't do too well on my subject tests.  I know that my stats look really good on paper, but how well do I stack up against the MIT admissions standards? I know they're insanely, insanely selective with admissions.

Buuut, I know it's hard as balls to get in.  Do I have a shot? How badly will my crappy subject test scores affect my chances?

* 4.65 weighted GPA (I think on a 5.2 scale, which would be all honors/AP courses, all 100s, no gym, nothing else)

* 2250 SAT score, 790 CR, 750 M, 710 W

* 660 Physics and 700 Math 2 scores (retook in October, hopefully did better)

* Top decile in class (ranked 5th in senior class)

* Eagle Scout (woo hoo, does this really mean anything at a top-tier school like MIT?), held positions of responsibility in troop for past 4 years

* Positions of leadership in 2 school clubs (Model UN website manager and delegate, school radio station DJ and program director this year, production manager last year)

* NHS, but barely squeaked by w/ volunteer hours

* Italian Honor Society (may be kicked out due to inactivity, not my fault)

* Varsity fencing 3 years straight

* Took every available math course in my school (including Linear Algebra, which is taught w/ a MIT curriculum)

* Took a college symbolic logic course over the summer

* Volunteer work with local Red Cross, Scout Camp, and local soup kitchen",12,0,2193.9849356411896,college
What should I write on my dry erase board in the hallway?,"A couple people in the dorm hall do a different would you rather everyday, where people put a tally when they walk by. What's something I can put on my board that I change daily and people will take interest in?",3,0,2226.321127770819,college
Are for profit colleges worth it?,"I'm looking at a for profit school called LIM in NYC and it has everything I want in a major. I'm wondering, are for profit colleges worth it? Also, if anyone has gone to LIM, is the education good and was it able to help you establish a career in fashion?",4,0,2237.916579159708,college
Thinking about applying to University of Arizona,I am wondering if anyone could help me out/ give me some advice.  I want to major in physiology to become a physiologist or psychiatrist.  I love Arizona and really want to go to University of Arizona.  I am wondering if that is a good college for my major? ,1,0,2242.324137030078,college
Just another high schooler freaking about over college on this subreddit,"I just had surgery so I'm on a lot of drugs right now, but try to bear with me. I'm still with it enough to type clearly, so that's a good sign.

I'm freaking out about college.

GPA: 3.0

ACT: 28


DECA (9)

Academic Team (9, 11)

Choir (9, 10, 11)

Show Choir (9, 10, 11)

Key Club (11)

Varsity soccer (11)

Musicals (leads) (9, 10, 11)

Freshman GPA: 3.0 (IB Program)

Sophomore GPA: 2.5 (I was a slacker and regret it)

Junior GPA: 3.5 (3.2 first semester, 3.7 second semester)

I've been tutoring underprivileged children for years now as a volunteer. I feed the homeless at my local shelter. I've gone on several mission trips, the most recent being to rebuild homes in Maryland for victims of Sandy. 

I was recently invited (and will attend) to be a speaker at the November UN Peace Conference in Malaysia.

I got expelled on the last day of my Junior year for a knife in my car. I'm homeschooling next year, but taking all APs. If I make decent grades (A's and B's) in all six classes, I'll have a 4.13 GPA for the year and a 3.3 cumulative. I've studied for the ACT and made a 33 on each practice test lately, so I'm fairly confident that I can make a 33. If I get that 3.3 and 33 on the ACT, what are my chances of getting into a good school? Also, I'm Arabic, have a single mother, and considered low-income. 

Do you think I could get accepted anywhere good? I'm very enthusiastic and I'm great with people for what it's worth (interview). I can get letters of recommendation from the head of the English department in my city school system and from several other teachers. 

I live in Alabama and I'm eligible for the Collegiate (half) scholarship at UA. With a 33, I'll be eligible for a full scholarship. Should I go to a state school at first? Money's also a huge issue. 

I know you guys get these all the time, but people like me really are desperate for input from knowledgeable people. 

",0,0,2257.907724993041,college
"Been arguing with parents about this, starting to doubt my thoughts","My financial aid ended 2 semesters ago, and I took the summer off to deal with personal issues and make some money. Due to some issues, I wasn't able to get financial aid for the upcoming semester, so I paid for a few classes out of my own pocket. My parents said that it was a bad idea because now I will have to start paying back my loans as well and I've been trying to tell them that that is not true, but now they're causing me to doubt my own statement. So my question is, as long as I'm in school, do I not need to pay back my student loans?",6,0,2266.1090212893373,college
Buying Versus Renting a Home For The College Years,,2,0,2270.18561851156,college
"Fresh UD pong table, labor of love.",,0,0,2278.0643453634116,college
Just got dismissed from my good university after my first year...what are my options?,"Hi. I'm 19 years old. I went to a very good top 10 state university. I had a terrible freshman year. I got a 2.6 GPA, and I got on conduct probation and then got into a fight with my roommate. I have been dismissed from the university since, which I just found out yesterday after trying to appeal it to the best of my ability with little success... 

I can appeal this again to stall the process before it officially says dismissed-conduct probation on my transcript

So now I am kind of lost. Should I go to community college now for a year? Or is there a chance I can go to a public or private college this Fall or next Spring? 


Please help, advice is strongly wanted. Thank you.",21,0,2287.0565675856337,college
Am I being reasonable?,"Im not going to apply to some top schools because of their mandatory swim test. I definitely have the stats needed, but I have a bad feeling that I wont pass and I have a phobia of pools. Schools include MIT, Cornell and Dartmouth.",12,0,2293.9595074004487,college
Majoring in reading,"I am an avid reader, and I want to go to college for something I love. I have made up my mind to not have my college decision influenced by financial problems. I am relatively good at reading tests and whatnot; I got a 750 on the SAT reading-portion.

IS there something I can major in where reading would be a big part of it?

I don't want the obvious answer of ""Reading will help you in all walks of life."" WHERE will my skill actually help me?",13,0,2294.6962087893376,college
Do I have any better options?,I can't really afford to go to any decent school for what I plan to achieve. My ultimate goal is to be a research scientist in the field of biology so I need a school that would not limit my future career with a lack of undergraduate research or prestige. What is my best option? I'd prefer not to go to the community college but I will if it's the only thing I can afford.  Are there any private schools that are decent in sciences that I have a probable chance of getting scolarships from? I'm a rising senior.,13,0,2300.609229622671,college
Purely based on reputation: Do people recognise Barnard College (basically Columbia university) or Tufts more?,,9,0,2301.1032921226706,college
Low interest rates for students will ultimately profit all Americans.,,0,0,2314.291903233782,college
Organizational Communication Major. Wondering if I should add a minor. (semi-walloftext),"Hello everyone,

I'm currently a Org Comm major who is less than 40 credits away from graduating. This will be my second year at the school I transferred to and wondering if I should add a minor to my major. 

The thing is, I was originally a nursing major at a CC where the nursing program was amazing the situation was there was a two year waiting list and people usually didn't get in within the first two years. I would have transferred to another school to get my nursing done but after doing my clinical, I decided the nursing field wasn't for me (I loved it but my heart wasn't in it).

So I decided to transfer to a private school (due to it being cheaper with scholarships and grants..a lot cheaper than the public state school) and decided to change my major. In a way I feel like I made a mistake with my current major but at the same time, I feel like I'm a Jack-of-all trades with all the courses I have under my belt. These courses from my prior major were nursing courses, psychology courses, mathematics courses, and chemistry courses. Then there is courses that covered the basic aspects as well (humanities, English, etc). So I'm pretty diverse with the material.  

My current school put all these courses together and made a package for my major which was approved but now I'm wondering if I should add a minor in econ or marketing.

My original plan was to go to Law school after undergrad but being a first generation college student making it on his own, I decided I wanted to go into the career field instead and pay down my loans. Depending on what happens down the road, I might still go back for Law if works out.

Sorry for the rambling but...should I add a minor in econ or marketing?",1,0,2321.290768974523,college
"Low cumulative GPA, need advice","This is long, but I really could use some help here.

For some reason I just never really tried in school.  I've been told I'm smart by a lot of people, but just never found the interest to commit myself.  Often times I never did work for classes simply because they were boring and uninteresting.  I used to have this mantra in high school: ""you and I, we both hate homework.  the difference is you do it anyway, and I don't.""

I did horrible my first semester of freshman year.  1.17 gpa.  I know I'm not alone in having a dismal freshman year, but honestly... I've had a dismal semester *every* semester, except last fall, when I pulled a 3.06... my highest GPA yet...  Which is honestly still pretty low.  My overall is a 2.44, but for the classes related to my major (history) it's a 3.09.  Even this past spring semester to close out my junior year, I got a C+ and D and got a 2.66.  However I think I will be able to graduate in 4 years and still be able to minor in something (I was thinking sociology maybe).  I only need 30 more credits.

It's only been recently, and by recently I mean within the last year or less, that I've genuinely realized I should be trying hard in school, and started to feel like crap for getting low grades.  Coming into college as a history major I wanted to be a teacher, but now I don't really want to anymore.  However I do want to go to grad school. I've read and heard so much that grad schools pretty much don't take anyone under a 3.0 gpa.  Like, they'll just look at your gpa, if it isn't above 3.0, then your app goes to the shredder.  That is horribly elitist and intimidating for someone like me, especially given that 1.17 gpa...  I just have no idea where I'm heading because I'm slowly but surely realizing I just blew the past 3 years of my life and royally fucked everything up before I even got a chance to start my life...  It's a really depressing attitude to have, but I just can't shake the feeling that it's true.

I'm looking for advice on what I could do for grad school, how badly I screwed myself over these past few years and if I still have time to make up for in my senior year, and just basically anything that can put my mind at ease and give me a more positive attitude going into the future. ",13,0,2337.933755085634,college
"What Drake Learned in Bio 101: ""I learned that Hennessy anemones are one hell of a mixture.""",,2,0,2383.1005953634117,college
Roommate so wasted he didn't wait to go to the bathroom -_-,,2,0,2420.550907863412,college
what should I major in?,"I attend columbia university and I am trying to decide between choosing economics or psychology as a major. I like both majors, however I like psychology more and it is much easier for me. I'm conflicted on what to choose. Please help.",3,0,2473.306370826375,college
Shitty SAT Subject Test scores?,"690 Math 2 and 620 Physics and 760 US History

This past year, [before the tests] I changed my future plans completely and now plan on majoring in Civil Engineering.

1. SAT and GPA are fine/great.

2. Essays and rec should be okay/fine.

3. Accepted to UIUC and GA Tech already <--- didn't require SAT IIs

But do these scores hurt my chance for any top schools (i.e. not necessarily Ivy but pretty rigorous/selective schools)?

**Basically, how much do they look at your SAT IIs over your other stats/essays/rec/etc.? Should I bother applying?**",6,0,2492.484727307856,college
"If I fail a college class with financial aid, do I have to pay the school the financial aid back?",,1,0,2493.742400918967,college
A sub-reddit for people that go to community colleges.,,1,0,2495.0423199004485,college
Advice for a group work tool for college students,"Hi /r/college.  I'm currently working on a platform for collaborative learning in college and I was hoping you could give me some advice.

The idea I had was to have professors structure a course around students working in groups to take notes on material with a heavily structured outline by a professor.  Students could then evaluate other groups' notes and then build study guides using the best notes for them.

I was wondering what you all though of this and if you had any advice.

If you like this idea or you'd like to see this idea at your college, sign up at notecollab.co

Thanks!",0,0,2522.923465733782,college
Can anyone help find colleges for a student with pathetic grades?,"I have a 75 average, but a ballin' ass essay, about how occupy wall street changed my life (which I've heard might help a lot with college).  I have a 2020 on my sat's, and a 720 on math 2 sat's and im taking 3 more sat 2s on saturday.

Do you guys know what colleges I can call safety schools (that hopefully aren't community colleges), as well as colleges that will value the essay more than grades?",6,0,2543.18973888193,college
opinions on this issue are much appreciated. Instructor gave me the wrong exam...,"Yesterday I took an exam that consisted of 20 open ended questions. As I was taking the test, the questions really didn't relate to the subject matter she told us we should study. There were a few things that I was confident in answering but some were just totally unrelated to the material taught in class. 

Afterwards I was talking to some classmates about certain questions and they had no idea what I was talking about. I knew I had been given the wrong test so I emailed the instructor and she confirmed her mistake. She apologized and asked me if I would be willing to take a retake tomorrow.

Do you guys think that getting a chance to take the real exam is fair? I feel like most college students would feel entitled to some kind of benefits from an instructors mistake. Especially one that involved them handwriting 20 responses.",14,0,2549.1360351782264,college
I know it's only my first day but I need support.,"As the title says, it's my first day and I'm a brand spanking new freshman. I love the city and the college I'm at but my parents left an hour ago and I haven't been able to stop crying. My roommate isn't here yet so I've locked myself away in my room. I know everyone gets homesick and is worried about making new friends but I just can't accept it. I want to go to school but I'm just so overwhelmed and scared and I just need advice. Or support, anything really. I can't stand the anxiety, especially since I have GAD. 

EDIT: thank you guys, the five of you have helped me quite a bit, even if some advice was rather brusque. I'm feeling better and I am still hella anxious and stuff but I have more motivation I guess. I just have to keep moving forward. I'll be keeping all of your comments in mind. Thank you again, I truly appreciate it. ",9,0,2601.070907863412,college
Know any colleges that have a lot of kids going to Cancun as a tradition?,Do you guys know of any colleges with a history of having students unofficially going to Cancun every spring break? I'm searching for some college party traditions just to do a bit of comparison.,2,0,2709.1243106411894,college
Champagne Life: Bottles Not Bongs: A College Conspiracy,,4,0,2744.879380085634,college
Sh*t Sorority Girls Say,,1,0,2828.892840733782,college
Paying for an Online Degree,,0,0,2899.962412493041,college
Ironic College Mascot?,"I am at a college with a yellow jacket as a mascot.  There have been several times on campus when a bee/hornet/yellow jacket has been at the door/in the building/attacking me while I eat lunch outdoors.  Each time I think ""Jesus when is the school gonna exterminate these devils?"" and ""should I just go reddit spider on their ass and burn down the building?"", which is probably what everyone is thinking.  When this happens the college then has to exterminate their mascot since everyone hates the mascot IRL.  kinda weird right?",2,0,2952.8780143448935,college
Why do some colleges require more useless/unrelated courses toward the same major than other colleges do?,"For example, University of Illinois requires more than 50 credit hours for a Nutrition and dietetics major, but Northern Illinois University only requires 31 credit hours? http://courses.illinois.edu/cis/2010/fall/programs/undergrad/aces/food_sci. ",6,0,3092.028697215263,college
Amazing college story.,"My friend Nate was in a multi-sex dorm back in college. His friends had the idea to prank him by putting a female bathroom sign on his dorm door. He never had his door locked, so random women would walk into his room. The prank turned out to be more of a gift, given the women were normally attractive and drunk.",3,14,2772.2269263819303,college
College,How do people pay for college and how do people deal with failed classes and finding a major ?,16,3,34.39802591896719,college
College Roommate Sells Drugs,"As the title says, let's just say that in theory that someone has a college roommate that sells drugs. And in theory, when someone was first assigned to him, in a college dorm, they were a bit worried because they knew he smoked weed. They got used to it though, because he didn't smoke it around them, and would only occasionally use a dab pen in the dorm. They personally have never smoked it, and don't plan on it, but don't mind if people do what they want unless it affects them. Recently though, said person's roommate may have had druggies knocking on the doors late at night asking for said roommate, while he's out partying. When this person's roommate comes back later, they tell him about these people, someone comes back and buys nearly $100 weed cartridges from the roommate. The roommate then tells them, after the druggie guy leaves, that they recently bought a ton of cartridges, and he is selling them, and getting some other kids to sell them for him too. He also talks about getting, in theory, a quarter pound of weed to sell. This person's roommate is much bigger, and older than them, and would likely absolutely kick this person's ass if they did anything. He is super nice though, they get along great, no issues, other than the drugs, he is a perfect roommate. What do you think that this person should do?",12,1,42.36398656711534,college
Sexual Assault in 2 days,"I just got an email from my school. Someone was sexually assaulted last night. This is only 2 days after the start of the semester.

I know the start of the semester is exciting, and the freedom from high school and/or parents is invigorating. But please be careful out there. Understand that actions have consequences, and some of those consequences can be severe.",10,2,50.477921752300524,college
Should scholarship money be shared between parents and their kid?,"Let’s say you’re a parent and your kid’s total college expenses for the four years adds up to $100,000. You decide to split the cost in half: you pay $50,000, your kid pays $50,000. 

Should scholarship/tuition assistance money be shared between you two? For example, if your kid earns $20,000 in scholarships, do you think you’re entitled to $10,000 of that?

What are your thoughts?

EDIT: Sorry, I understand I might not have worded this correctly. All scholarship money does go towards schooling. My question is: should any tuition assistance earned by the student be used to pay for his/her part of the college expenses, or should it be shared equally and go towards both the kid’s share of the college costs and parent’s share of the college costs? 

Again, all scholarship money, of course, goes towards schooling.",19,3,122.14473888193017,college
Does anyone else feel guilty when they don’t stay up to an absurd morning hour to study?,"Finals week has arrived and I find myself getting a decent amount of sleep because of how I’ve distributed my workload over the past few weeks. I can’t help but feel bad that I am getting 6 or 7 hours of sleep a night, does anyone else get that way too?",7,3,155.27015554859685,college
"On Chinese ""Prep Agencies"" for Overseas Western University Admissions","Tldr version - Wealthy Chinese students uses cheating prep services in order to gain admittance to Western universities and schools.

Hi all, in light of the recent US college admissions scandals, I just wanted to share some of my experiences regarding Chinese prep agencies. I am not an education professional, but I have worked closely with clients who runs some of these agencies.

Feel free to AMA on any questions on these agencies, business and corruption in China in general, or anything at all regarding life here.

Prep agencies in China come in all types and tiers, and tutoring services are the least that they offer. Want your kid to get into a prestigious local elementary? Know the right agency, and they can get you in touch with the school's administration or director. After that, they'll organize a meet (usually a dinner function) and you can ""songli (give gifts) in the form of money or other types of valuables. Depending on the school, gifts may be anywhere from 2000-400,000Yuan (300-60K USD). Strings will be pulled to admit your kid, and everyone's happy except the other kids that weren't admitted.

But elementary schools are the least of anyone's worries. To put it another way, no one in China cares about corruption on that level, because it's extremely prevalent and seen as normal. The recent US college admission scandals, where a student paid $6.5M to get into Stanford? You bet most students and their parents will opt for that option, if they had the means. But that's only for the extremely wealthy families, with accessible connections in the West or impressive monetary or political influence. Since most do not, they have to rely on Chinese agencies if they want to study overseas.

What do prep agencies offer? Depending on the price, the services offered range from advising, to comprehensive, to outright illegal cheating. Some packaged examples:

1000-10,000Y (150-1400 USD) range - Advice on schools to apply to / coping and preparation with life in the US. English coaching, SAT coaching, and essay/written statement advising. Most innocent of services, but you would be surprised at how little some of these kids know considering they want to study overseas. Minimal english listening skills, can't speak at all, never left their city or hometown, doesn't know a thing about living by themselves nor any worldly knowledge.

100,000-300,000Y (15K-43K USD) range- Extensive school admissions details (non-public admission figures such as yearly race admittance ratios, trends in what to look for in applicants, etc). Coaching for SAT, 24/7 available advisors and tutors. Will have a PhD-level native/fluent english speaker to write your essays, personal statements. Can fake recommendation letters and extracurricular activities.

300,000Y-1,000,000Y+ (43K-140K+ USD) range - All of the above, with options to have a SAT test taker sit the test for you, with a guaranteed 1550+, 800 on the subject tests. Actual sitting Chinese professors or other professionals to write your recommendation letters. Will set you up with pseudo-internships or other extracurricular activities (working 10-20 days under a CEO/CFO, lab research assistant, bullshitted paper publication etc) in order to list on your resume, and to bring up at interviews. This is guaranteed to bear admittance to a top 20 US college or university. 

I believe there is also an option for guaranteed Ivy acceptance, but that is dependent on the school of choice and costs a lot more. If a student does not gain admittance, they can try again next year for 50% of the package price. I am unsure if transcripts are/can be also faked, but it is more than possible.

There are a surprising number of Chinese students that use these services. Most come from wealthy backgrounds, and some from modest means where mom and pop scrounged savings for 20 years, or sold the old family home. Many are the children of government officials (250k USD degree on a 10,000Y/month salary? lol). How much it costs in the end depends on the prestigiousness and competitiveness of the school, and how challenged the kid is.

But in the end, most do end up getting into a Western school, even if it's University of North Dakota or some other unimpressive name, as long as it's overseas.",2,2,157.62183378933756,college
What is the purpose of a Senior Seminar class?,"If you are in a major that requires a Senior Seminar class, then you will have to write a 20-40 page paper on a narrowed topic of your choice. It is not like a traditional college class that you have taken. It's very intensive and it's not about just writing 20-40 pages of facts. You have to come up with a thesis statement and make arguments and main points throughout the paper. My major is history and I had to take a senior seminar class and I couldn't handle it. I was accused of plagiarizing when I turned in my rough draft. Other people were having other issues with writing it as well. I understand that I plagiarized, but I don't understand what the issues were with other peoples' papers. If you cite everything correctly, put everything in your own words, and use proper grammar/spelling, then I don't know what more they want. I was supposed to graduate this weekend, but it's now been postponed because of this class. First of all, I'm not that interested in history. I wish that I had gone with something else. Secondly, I have high functioning autism aka Asperger's which means that I have ADD and problems with executive functioning. My advisor has come up with a new major for me which is Integrative Studies. This requires me to write a 15-20 page paper connecting the top 2 subjects that I have studied throughout college. Once I finish this paper, I could graduate by the end of the summer or the fall. I don't understand why they expect you to write a 30 page paper. Nobody wants to write that many pages. People just want their degrees and to be done with school. We've already written hundreds of papers throughout our academic careers. Why do they punish us like this once we get close to graduating?",19,0,160.73020184489312,college
Why do ivy league schools acceptance rate is so low?,"So, I've been thinking about how Yale and It's peers invest so much in corporate image. Do you think ivy league acceptance rate is low because of the quantity of people applying do to it's aspirational goals, even though, they somehow know they don't have most of the requirements they ask for? Or do you think that they do have a strong selection process regardless of this requirements? 

Pd: I do still admire people who, by merits, get in this schools.",8,2,186.40351203007828,college
Prof shut me down when I tried to discuss a grade on my paper,"I got a bad grade on a paper that was graded by the TA, and I completely disagree with her reasoning/comments. Especially since they go against the guidelines for writing the paper. Went to talk to my prof about it, ask him to look at the paper and he shut me down and said I have to talk to the TA. 

This is frustrating since I'm going to go to the TA, say I disagree, she is going to say that that's what she thinks the paper is worth and then I'm going to have to go back to my prof and talk to him about it again. This is going to make this whole ordeal last 3 weeks since the paper was handed back, as it has already been 2 weeks. 

What's super frustrating is that the TA isn't a grad student, she's in undergrad like me. I think I'm actually a year ahead of her. So she doesn't really have the experience to be grading papers for other undergrad students. ",4,3,218.1136509189672,college
Is college a scam?,"I spent 5 years in the military, now I am using the GI Bill to go to school and earn a economics degree. I feel like i'm  just wasting my time. Sitting in class listening to the professor go on and on about pointless stupid shit. I am also taking useless courses, like natural science, just to fulfill the credit requirements.  I am investing another 3-4 years of my life in college just to earn a regular job that pays 60k per year. Sometimes I think I could just run my own business instead of going to college but I'm not sure where to start or what to do. What do you guys think of college?",17,1,251.70259767822645,college
How do I tell one of my roommates that’s we’re not planning on living with him next year?,"We are probably his only “friends” on campus so it’s unclear who he would live with next year.  I feel bad but it’s easier to room with three people instead of four and he doesn’t really add anything to our core group of friends anyway. 

We know that we have to tell him to his face and we have to do it before the housing application closes. This means we have to do it soon and then it will be awkward living with him for the rest of the semester. How should we phrase it so it comes out nicely? Is there a way to phrase it so he can’t ask us if it’s his personality because that’s the main reason. ",3,0,271.1444842523005,college
What do you wish would be banned from the classroom?,"Well, ""banned"" may be too strong a word, but what things do you wish other students would not be allowed to do or have during class because it is distracting or annoying to you as a student just trying to get through the class?",27,2,276.50670647452273,college
Question about academic dishonesty charges,My sister is attending an online university and she was paying someone to do some coursework for her and the person is located in a very shity country. But the person does decent work. The university caught the IP address from the idiot who uploaded it and they want to have some hearing about it. Is there usually a warning or something. And they said that there's academic charges against my sister. And I want to have a meeting. I think its funny.,6,0,285.3400050856339,college
How do you deal with your sex drive?,I’ve been having this problem all the time during college. It gets really annoying especially when I need to get focused in my studying. So what are things that helped you deal with this? ,14,2,292.05653286341163,college
Trump administration refuses to publish required report on student-loan borrower complaints,,3,2,307.31260925230055,college
pls give tips for all nighters,also i'm not in college but you're the best people to ask.,18,4,409.36365091896715,college
Lessons learned from college.,"1. Most who go to college are not meant for it. Nearly every day in college there were those of us who struggled with most concepts to grasp, but there were always like 3 or 4 that shine. I'm not talking about geniuses, but really hardworking passionate people. These are the few college should be for. A place for these few to pursue their gift and later research the future in the field. The ones with true passion that live for what they are learning, not learning to live.

If you are riding on these 3 or 4 back to pass a class you need to do some serious soul searching on how much time and money you are wasting following the blazed trail of truly invested, passionate scholars of the industry.

2. Why did I not work first??? This one is huge. The answer to this is obviously the culture, but ... I really wished I worked before I went to school. Working gives you appreciation for your own time and how much student loan debt actually can be. This could also be a fire under your butt to pursue a degree harder in hopes of never having to work a less professional job again.

3. College is a business. College is not a church that hands out degrees and promises you a job in the end. College is a business that barters education for money. Before I went I wish I looked at the entire scope like a business transaction. When we are poor college students, we usually make the choices for the cheapest most valued lunch deal on campus when buying lunch or dinner. At the same time we expect it to fill our bellies and get the fulfill our needs.

I wish I paid more attention to how valuable one college was versus another or if college was going to give me enough value to have an ROI one day.",1,0,495.47133610415244,college
I do not want to waste 4-6 years of my life by going to college.,"That being said, 

I start college this fall. I turned 19 two months ago so I’m starting one year late due to some problems last year that I couldn’t control. I am having a lot of trouble on selecting a major. 

I always thought that I would want to be an English major (since my junior year of high school.) However, I came to an epiphany about 3 days ago that it’s hard to make a good amount of money with an English degree. 

Recently, majoring in marketing has caught my interest. However, I’ve heard that many people major in marketing and that the marketing industry has fierce competition. Recently, I’ve also thought about majoring in economics. I still do not know much about that degree though. 

My question to any readers is: What major should I pursue?

My interests so far are:

-Marketing
-Economics
-Law (problem with this is I don’t have money for law school)

I want a job that pays a decent amount of money and a job where I wouldn’t have to worry about struggling too hard to find a job after graduating. Feel free to suggest any other fields that I haven’t listed. ",45,2,603.2430027708191,college
"The longer I stay in college, the more I grow to loathe everything about it","I get A's in everything. Academic success is not my concern. But to be in college is practically torture. And everyone is so stupid including the professors when they aren't talking about their own research. They're practically specialists in their field but dumbasses in the real world. And I'm not even joking because I find people who get into trades smarter on the whole. Out of the 15 classes I've taken so far, maybe 3 had decent professors. Knowledgeable but can't convey ideas. That's exactly it. Why has 4/5 of all my courses been reading off the textbook and skipping lectures cause you can't teach? What the fuck am I paying for?  Everything else about college is also rotten. ROTTEN. Especially the way they rip you off shamelessly with their meal plans. Also to dumb college kids, STOP SETTING OFF THE FIRE ALARM AND WASTING A SIGNIFICANT FRACTION OF THE DAY CUNTS. ",21,0,678.8945768448931,college
Why do people not sit in the same seat each class?,Nothing annoys me more than walking in to a class in the second week only to find someone sitting in the spot I've been in for 3 classes,18,4,780.2487203634116,college
4.0 GPA Sophomore in High School Getting Burned Out Thinking About Not Going to College,"I'm a 4.0 GPA sophomore, and I've only taken a practice ACT, but I got a 31. I love learning, and just last year I had no doubts about going to college, but I now am having thoughts about not going at all or joining the military. 
It's not about the money, my parents have said that they'll pay for three years of tuition, and if I get scholarships then that'll cover the last year that I'm responsible for, I just am not sure I want to ""waste"" four years of my life in that manner. I'm sure that I'd love college, but I think that I can do great things without it. With that being so, I'd really only be going to college for the experience and the networking (meeting people and making connections for later in life), and I'm not sure if that's worth a quarter of a million dollars and four years of my life. I've talked to my parents about this, and they're supportive, but reserved about the idea, as they want me to be successful.
My feeling is that if you treat your whole life like a college education, you'll never have to go, so I'm taking entrepreneurship, video production, and newspaper classes and preparatory classes in high school as a way to get as much information as I can before I graduate. 
I'm not sure exactly what I'd do while I don't go to college, but I figure that this is the 21st century, and there are all of these startup and internet jobs that I could put my smarts toward getting. I'm also trying to see if I could my parents to let me use the money that they would put towards my tuition instead to let me use to do what I want with it (start a business, invest, travel). 
I know that this is my sophomore year, and a lot will change before senior year, but I feel like this is a sentiment that will stay, as I truly don't feel that college is a perfect fit for me. That being said, I do love the idea of rushing a fraternity, having the college experience, and getting to live four years of my life in an enclosed environment and getting to be my own person, however, I'm not sure it's something that I can commit that level of time to. Any help or advice? Thanks in advance.",11,0,1060.7417643448932,college
Why is segregation coming back full force?,"I've noticed on college campuses recently that stories like this are becoming the norm [http://www.thecollegefix.com/post/29310/] but I'm wondering why. I didn't go to college and instead joined a trade after high school, so these backwards ideas are completely foreign to me. Is this really some conspiracy about either liberals wanting to resegregate the population, or is this some sort of payback they're working towards for slavery?",4,0,1108.257690270819,college
Can my scholarship be taken away?,"I'll be starting college in the fall and I received scholarship money from the school I'll be attending. Right now, I'm a senior and I'm not putting much effort in anymore. If my grades are bad, but not failing for the year, is it possible for me to lose any scholarship money or lose my scholarship altogether? I committed close to 2 months ago. Thanks!",6,1,1219.4135351782265,college
Telling others what you study,"When meeting fellow students, the conversation at some point goes about what one studies. When the question ""what do you study"" is asked to me, and I reply with 'engineering', I quite often am presented reactions like ""wow"" or ""you're so smart"" and amazed faces.
Mostly followed by an awkward silence.

Why do people react like this? How do you behave in such situations?",17,3,1220.255340733782,college
"I want to tell the professor what i think of him , basically tell him that he is an asshole","I got an academic misconduct on his class , because he thought that i was seeing other peoples exam while i was doing mine . But honestly and i was freaking the fuck out because i had not studied they day before , and i was looking left and right hence i was freaking out , and i didn't know how to any fucking question during the exam . During the exam he was staring right at me  , thinking that i had the intent of cheating . 

Once i hopefully graduate , i wanna go to his face and tell him that he sucks  , and the least he could of done is talk to me in private , telling me whether i was having any problems during the course and gave the chance of dropping from the class.

Do you think he might sue me , if i told him this to his face as i am international student and i really want to come to the USA for holidays , and not have this hanging over me . Basically no entry the country again.",3,0,1222.6882805485968,college
Worried about finding a good job after college,"So some of my classmates are bad at their majors (bad at Computer Science, physics, Economics, Math) and decide to pursue them anyway. I know that grade inflation is big today and present at my college so their getting a B in their classes is really worth a C. They won't succeed if they continue to do their majors because the job market is competitive, and there a plenty of people who can do better than them, and they grades are inflated so much so their grades mean nothing and they're not good at what they study. I know a few economics majors who falsely think they will definitely get rich by studying economics, but I think they won't succeed because the good jobs will be taken by those in IVy League colleges' students. The statistics majors I know can't program and programming is pretty necessary in statistics. The economics majors I know decided to pursue the economics major even though they don't want to be an investment banker and can't stand the 110 hours of work per week. I don't think there's many avaliable jobs besides investment banking/analyst-like/hedge-fund like jobs for economics majors and it's unprobabilistic that they'll get a job besides investment banking and if they do investment banking good luck on the 100 hour work week and banker 9am to 5am work ""day"". If you don't want to be an IB or analyst, majoring in econ is like useless right? The bio majors will end up not in medical school because they can't handle medical school and end up in labs getting paid like $40,000 per year after wasting so much money on college with all the student loans and debt. I'm pretty much in the same situation as them and I can't program, ain't a genius, didn't do extremely well on SATs and I feel like I won't get a good job. I'm not a phenomen writer either or talker. Am I doomed to get a low-paying job I don't like? It's like Karl Marx is right about the fact they we're all getting poorer even though we work harder and harder. I know some people who are majoring in social work majors, and those don't earn good money either or have marketable skills. I don't understand why people pick majors that are useless job wise. I know chem-majors who are really smart and should have picked Chemical Engineering because they're smart enough to do that but they ended up chem-majoring which compares second to none to Chemical Engineering and is less useful jobwise. They say they don't want to do chem, want to do something like IB which requires lots of econ knowledge after graduation but I doubt there's any other options besides teaching and chemistry for them after graduation because you only get to go to college once right?. I know physics majors who had every opportunity to choose the engineering path instead, and don't have the brains to become a physicist. I am not talking about how happy people will be if they pick a certain job or career. Why did these people even go to college if they're not competitive enough?",11,0,1228.9806300856337,college
I found over 30 colleges that are free with no tuition cost,,2,0,1233.4083615671152,college
"[enlighen me]people taking useless majors, are they really a majority?","lately i have been seeing the vast majority of college students with useless majors, mainly art majors, or other things that arent very vocational, u know, or vocational for very weak jobs

am i just unlucky to be seeing this or is it a reality?",5,1,1247.607204159708,college
Fake bank statements/forged bank statements for admission?,"My sister is an international student currently trying to renew her visa status to study for another year/different course. But due to unfortunate events, my mom lost her job but we can still afford to pay her tuition fees. However, one of the requirements for admission is proof of funding through stamped bank statements with $30,000 available in the account. We dont have that kind of money and was wondering if i could either provide fake ones or digitally altered statements since this will be sent through email. Thanks for the help reddit.

Edit: I guess what im really asking is whether or not they would verify the legitemacy of the statements. Being it is from a foreign country and all. Thanks.",3,0,1268.411903233782,college
Freshman in college computer help,I need a labtop for college and my budget is 500 any tips or suggestions?,8,1,1292.3899703634117,college
"Creating help for Americans that are unable to pay for college, bringing them to Argentina.","HI! I'm Gabriel, and after talking with a lot of American Friends, and listening how they are unable to pay for college, or how hard their debt is (This one friend has over 70k+ in debt). It came to me, that I could be able to help. I want to start a community to help americans get their college education in Argentina.

In this first step I want to know, what are your fears, worries, and curiosities. Sincé I have almost to none idea what your major fears and problems are I cannot help you. Ask me anything.

Pro's of studying in Argentina: 

-College is free.
-Registration is free, general, and they cannot reject you.
-All of the above includes Foreigns.
-Amazing Night Life
-Learn a New language
-Any other pro's of studying abroad.



Ask me Anything related to Argentinian College, Argentina Lifestyle, or whatever you feel like it's important. ",8,3,1363.6961740671154,college
"If I'm not into math/sciencey stuff, do I even have any business going to college?","Even if I get into a ""good"" school? I don't want to have loan out 50k just so I could get stuck working some dead end job I could've gotten straight out of h.s. I feel like all my hard work has been wasted... Yeah, sure you learn how to ""think"" as a liberal arts major, but the job market doesn't want people who can think -- they only want people who can crunch numbers and design the latest gizmo. What should I even do with my life?",26,0,1373.0032342523004,college
My First Month at Full Sail University.,,7,0,1418.3615328634116,college
"College activists are attacking free speech at UCLA because, microaggressions.",,1,2,1463.2394495300784,college
How do people game on PC in college?,"I'm currently living in a small dorm, and my current setup is not very good. I'm wondering how others are able to play games in such  a confined space. My cables run all over my mousepad, so there's not much room for even surfing reddit. Plus, it's like 90 freaking degrees in my dorm. I'm afraid if I game, it'll be like 100 or something. Also, should I be gaming? Apparently lots of people go out to parties and stuff, but I honestly don't really like partying all that much. It feels like I'm missing out on the ""college experience"", but I guess I don't necessarily care that much about getting drunk and doing drugs or whatever the hell the college experience is supposed to be.",5,2,1503.12161388193,college
"""The most recent AP Exam you took was more than four years ago. Your scores are archived and not available online."" Fax or mail only in 2015, really?","So I'm going back to school after a failed stint as a teacher. I need my AP scores to prove to the new school that I don't have to take Comp I again. But I took my last AP test in 2008, so it's archived.

Now, if this meant it was stored in some database that isn't public facing, but I could still order my report online like it does with every other example of old documents I've needed, it would be annoying but at least acceptable. But instead I actually have to print out a PDF (one that has poorly laid out text boxes which aren't even editable -- you have to do it all by hand) and either mail it or fax it to the college board, with either a check or a credit card number included to pay their exorbitant fee.

What the fuck? You mean to tell me its 2015 and you don't have a friggin' online form for this? Are your ""archives"" made of paper too, or something? It's insane. Moral of the story, Jesus, College Board, get your act together.",4,4,1547.0632458263747,college
"Zandria Robinson, Univ. of Memphis professor: 'Whiteness is most certainly and inevitably terror'",,1,0,1569.2460583263746,college
My Full Experience At Pensacola Christian College Part 2,"The dorm life for me, as I stated before was rough. It was new for me, since I never been in a dorm in my life. I would soon learn that it takes time and patience to get used to it. So two of my roommates, who were seniors, were actually popular. Yes, they were well known thought out the school. And that's something I should've looked at, becuase I'm the kind of person who doesn't like a lot of attention. Anyway, I would soon learn that not everyone follows the rules. You see, music is a BIG thing at PCC. There's certain things we aren't allowed to listen to and certain things we are allowed to listen to. And to make sure that they actually montired music, there are no headphones allowed. And I literaly took these rules seriously. I left my mp3 and my headphones at home, and I'm thinking they follow the rules. But a few weeks later, one of the roomates brings an apple computer and installs it with speakers, and the next thing, he's just BLASTING it! And man, most of the music he listened to was way aganist the rules! But you know something, the rooms was right next to the ice room. So you know what that means? No one can hear it. They were smart and knew it all too well. And the other roomate was doing it as well! He installed speakers on his bed and jammed out to is music that was aganist the rules as well. So, I'm thinking, wow. I guess most people break the rules. And it turns out, most of the guys on the floor did. And no one cared. So, that's when I started to break the rules also. You can read more about it on my post. But I was like, wow. These guys are well known in the college, they have so much knowledge from the bible, and they break rules too? To me, it didn't make any sense. Anyway, another thing that was a big pet peeve, was sleeping. You see, since they were both ""Well known"", people just popped in. Yeah, even at night as well. And yeah, when I was sleeping as well. And to me, that was just so rude. They actually had no respect for people who were trying to sleep, espically people who had to go to work or to rest for a big test. And yes, I figured out that they were basically in charge of the dorm, and I had no final say whatsover. I tried to talk to them but they just didn't budge. I also DID try to move to another room, but It didn't work out. So, I stuck with it. Even my other roommate and I had frequent talks in private about how they don't give any consideration to us. But hey, that's how college life is. From sleeping to sharing the bathroom was a huge struggle. I'm not saying I don't like them, I do. In fact, we are good friends. But it's the other things I didn't like. It was just rude.

I pretty much explained a lot of things on my other post, so I won't put it on here. But I have a interesting stories that will blow your mind. And yes, I was there.

My friends and I were out of campus just to go somewhere to eat. Sometimes the food just gets too old. But yeah, as we were driving, one of my friends forgot his wallet. He was worried like crazy. Why, because he had ""Condoms"" in it. Yep, apprently this guy has sex with the college girls, and they are stirct about it. He found his wallet and didn't get in trouble, but seriously. He needs to be careful, because the moment he gets caught, all his hard work there would be a waste if he gets kicked out.

Oh yeah, there was a girl I liked brielfy, but she's just a baby, fresh out of high school. I also prefered girls around my age lol.

One thing I want to talk about is the ushers there. They recently posted an article about them, and explain how they take their job seriously and stuff like that. It also explains how they set a positive example for the service, which is not always the case. I had experiences where a usher just told me to sit at a spot coldly. Yes, they are professionals, but I feel most of them have favorites. Yeah, since they are made up RA's, they only talk to the popular crowd. Most RA's are popular, since they have a big role. I even saw an usher in one event just going back and talking to a hot spanish girl. But yeah, not all are like that. I knew one who was cool and had no problems with. But some of them just have a cold attitude. I think they get it from their cold bosses.

I had a situation I think I can describe as discrimation. In chapel, it was the last quarter of the semester, and I was sitting next to a white girl. And all that time, she never looked at me, she never spoke to me, and she only moved if I was getting into the seat. So, she couldn't talk to me, but she could talk to a girl, who was asian. Yeah, I could feel a lot of tention. And yes, I can personally say that PCC has rasicm inside. Yes. Even christians can discrimate.

I feel that the interantionals are more friendly, since they are from another country. In fact, I was friends with a lot of them. I felt that I could bond with them more than us Americans.

Oh yeah, the elevators. Everytime someone goes to the secnd floor, people always complain. And yeah, I had a guy get mad at me one day, while I was going to class. Honestly, I wanted to say that I pay to be here just as you. But then that would get into an argument, and I don't like to waste time arguing. But after a while, I just brush it off when I have to go to the second floor.


Yeah, I pretty much explained my experiences. But I want to share one last thing. It's how I was treated that lead me to withdraw from the college. You see, prior to going back, I was in a deep situation. So, I wrote a letter explaining everything. Fortunantly, they responded, but not in the manner that I wanted. I remember getting a call from student life, saying that someone wanted to speak to me. So, I went there and spoke to Dr.Ohman. He told me he read the letter and looked at my situation, but told me that there was nothing they could do. And he did it in a way where it was stone, cold hearted. I've seen him speak during a chapel service once, and thought he was this perosn who cared for the student body. Wrong. He's just there to enforce the rules. And that's what he was doing. Just sitting there in his office, him staring at me and looking at me with coldness, it didn't feel good. The ""love"" they always talk about wasn't anywhere near this man. I mean, if he told me in a more lighter way with understanding, then I would take that. But that wasn't the case. So, After that, I knew the college wasn't the place for me anymore. Aside from the fact that It's not accredited, most people really don't care. So I knew I had to leave. I actually stayed for a few more days, trying to work it out, but they stuck with their rules.
",2,2,1599.7303754560041,college
"Expensive college is lowering its cap from $2,000 to $1,000 while it costs a typical $37,616","So, I go to Mars Hill University and it costs a typical $37,616. As you can tell it is an expensive university and the amount that was allowed you to have on your bill that you did not have to pay was $2,000. So then they decided to lower that to $1,000. AND THEY DID THIS WITHOUT TELLING US. It just happened and they are just trying to sneak it past us. The university is not helping the students that have low income by making them pay $1,000 more out of nowhere. 

Also we have Work Study. That over a semester gives you $1,500 so that means we have to pay MORE then what we are supposed to anyway since we have to pay the bill at the BEGINNING of the semester.

If you feel like helping the students of this university then you can sign this petition: http://www.thepetitionsite.com/506/850/596/raise-the-cap/?taf_id=13515368&cid=fb_na#  or you can spread this message. We may be a small here at Mars Hill University, but we as students don't deserve this.


CLARIFICATION EDIT:

Reading through comments I realize that the problem that students have with this new policy is not entirely clear.
We are not complaining that the cap exists, or that it was lowered. There are two major factors that we feel are wrong with this new policy:

1. This new policy came out of nowhere. We were told about this policy a few weeks before we had to do early registration and because of this, in order to register for the next year people have to come up with $1,000 dollars in a few weeks, and with the price of the University this is not an easy achievement. 

2. This cap is lower then what most people earn over a semester which is $1,500. This money is through work study, goes to a students tuition, and you receive all of the money over the course of the semester. This means that with a $1,000 cap work study students have to pay more money towards their tuition then needed. 

We are not complaining about the fact that the cap exists, just the time frame in which it was implemented and also for those who have to now pay more then what they should.",5,1,1681.8037666597081,college
Reporting a vicious comment someone made on social media?,"So we have a Facebook group for our course. There is a lecturer, we'll call her M and people have been making some really nasty comments about her. 

I understand she's not very clear at times regarding her expectations and she's old fashioned and, to put it politely, not the best lecturer we have. A few people have made the odd comment about her on Facebook: dong, pleb, cock wombler (wtf). That kind of really juvenile stuff. 

However today someone decides to post ""I vote we burn M at the stake because she's a little bitch!"" And 2 people liked it. 

I don't know why I'm so furious. It was just a really horrible and unnecessary thing to say. 

I've screen capped the post but I'm not sure what to do now. Report it to Facebook, the university? I know one member of university staff who could absolutely destroy the person who said that so I'm a bit hesitant. Has anyone else dealt with this thing before?",8,4,1981.4514518448932,college
I will be a college freshman in the Fall and I don't want to look like a complete idiot. HELP!!!,"So, with the stress of realizing that the next billion years of my life are going to be devoted to my post-secondary education as well as medical school, I am stressing about how to be a freshman.  Of course everyone goes through it if they attend a college. . . I know.  Haha

I was just wondering if any of the professionals here could help.  

Some questions I have are:

How do I NOT look like a freshman.  (Because we all know some people who will make a fool of themselves)  How can I avoid the embaressment?

As a pre-med student, what could I be doing to prepare myself for the MCAT as early as my first term in college?

Money is always a nice thing right?  Do you have any tips for getting monies for undergrad?

What are some things I should avoid bringing to campus for move-in-day?  Also, some things I should FOR SURE bring?  What kind of things do you have in your dorm?

How do I get involved, it seems pretty scary, if you will...  I feel like I might be stuck in my dorm for a while trying to figure it all out.  Haha

Is there any general life advice you guys have as I begin my journey through adulthood and college?

Thanks guys, from an excited but stressed soon-to-be freshman. Any help would be great!  If you feel that I have missed some pretty important questions than please comment.   I'd like to soak up as much as I can before I start this journey.  :)


",55,1,1997.9678060115596,college
How bad is it to apply to colleges only because they're close to where your girlfriend is applying?,"I'm not JUST applying there, it's just I'm sending more towards places she might be as well..",6,0,2019.2611277708193,college
How to improve sophomore year,"College was a difficult transition for me. I moved 6 hours away from home, had a terrible roommate first semester, and found out I was rejected from an internship that I spent 1.5 years applying for (it was a multi-step process). I'm pursuing degrees in both psychology and information sciences. My GPA for first semester was a 3.55, which isn't terrible, though this semester my classes are more difficult, and my professors really aren't that great, so I'm a little bit worried about my GPA dropping after this semester, though it's too early right now to say if that'll happen or not. I also ended up not really getting involved in anything outside of schoolwork.

I want to improve sophomore year, and I'm wondering if you guys can give me any advice. I want to get into grad school, and I know I need to start making myself look competitive now. It's too late to apply for a different internship this summer, so I'll just be going home to likely get just a generic job (retail or restaurant, etc.) to save up some money for the next semester. I want to get involved in more clubs, but whenever I went to club meetings this past year, I found that it was hard to establish myself as an individual. I also want to get a job during the year (well, need to, since I'll be living off-campus and need to have money for groceries, rent, etc.). So, I want to get a job, join clubs, boost my resume, etc., while also still making good grades. I'm also a runner, so I need to leave in time for that as well. I don't know how to do all of this without overextending myself, but I know I need to include more activities outside of school for my resume while also still maintaining good grades.

How do I manage all of this? Any advice? ",3,0,2029.2470652708191,college
Can i get into UCLA with great improvement?,"My overall GPA is a 3.2 and SAT is ~2100. I am not a California resident. My average jumped from an 83 freshman and sophomore year to a 95 junior year. This is due to my extremely bad scoliosis/other medical conditions and my parents bitter divorce that destroyed my academics freshman and sophomore year. I am captain and co founder of my school's robotics club/team, a part of math club, an A.V. squad member, have volunteer work, have great letters of recommendation, and had a summer internship. Will admissions be able to overlook freshman and sophomore year? Is there a way to explain my situation and if so would it look whiny?     ",2,0,2049.049299067115,college
The professor said if you have performed well on your other exams you can drop this one by not coming to class. (Story in comments),,1,0,2143.295201844893,college
Every Dead/Finals Week,,2,0,2145.555803696745,college
So this happened in physics today (potato quality because I was sneaking the shot so my professor didn't see),,0,0,2162.220224993041,college
Do any of you go to Yale? What's it like?,"I got a letter from Yale yesterday about admissions and shit, and figured it would be the same old drivel you always get from colleges about how cool their school is, but thankfully, something in the letter caught my eye. Apparently, if you get accepted and your family makes less than $65,000 a year, you can go for free. Well, I fit that, and it's definitely made me think. My other primary choice is in a pretty cool city, I have friends that got accepted, and the school itself has some pretty awesome shit going on. They have a scholarship for grades that can pay most of my tuition. But Yale is going to cost way less. I just want to know what the atmosphere is like within the student body and college itself, as well as what the city of New Haven ix like.",12,2,2307.047042122671,college
The Truth about Affirmative Action- an Op Ed,"Affirmative Action. It's controversial, and continues to rise in popularity with the rapid decrease in college acceptance rates. According to Wikipedia, Affirmative Action is ""the impetus is to redress the disadvantages associated with overt historical discrimination."" 

""African-American applicants receive the equivalent of 230 extra SAT points (on a 1600-point scale), and being Hispanic is worth an additional 185 SAT points. Asian-American applicants face a loss equivalent to 50 SAT points."" (Chung & Espenshade, 2005)

The statistics above make one thing fairly obvious for sure, and that is Affirmative Action is blatantly racist. Affirmative Action assumes that all African American or Hispanic applicants are underprivileged and belong to families with incomes below the poverty line, and did not have the same opportunities as their peers. This does not take into account individual hardships that may not be restricted to a person's race. Additionally, this undermines any hardships faced by an Asian or a White applicant. Affirmative Action implies that there are no Asian or White families that could possibly be under the poverty line. Of course, all White and Asian people are rich and live in good crime-free neighborhoods. And also, of course there are no well-off African Americans or Hispanics besides Oprah Winfrey and Jennifer Lopez, right?  

It is not unheard of for an Asian student with excellent credentials to be rejected from the same university that would accept a non-Asian candidate with the same or similar credentials. Due to Affirmative Action policies, thousands of Asian and White applicants get turned away from schools which they are qualified or even over-qualified for, based on an unsaid quota. As a result, less qualified students are given admission determined by their race, and not their merit. Yes, competitive colleges are looking for students that have good credentials in extracurriculars as well, but this does not mean that Asian and White students lack these traits. This also does not mean that Hispanic and African American students are necessarily well-rounded.

Arguments that the Asian culture enforces an academic oriented focus on children does not invalidate the fact that these Asian students still had to devote hard work into preparing themselves for college. It is unfair that their credentials are often chalked up to simply ""being Asian."" On the other hand, Affirmative Action is also offensive to African American or Hispanic students at competitive institutions. An unwanted bias is created that these students were admitted to the university based solely on Affirmative Action. There is a negative stigma that these students had lower SAT scores or qualifications than their peers, and this often is not the case, and is untrue for many African American or Hispanic students that have credentials on par of those of their Asian or White counterparts. Affirmative Action should be based on an individual's personal experiences and family income level, not on their race, which beyond their control.

Affirmative Action has greater consequences than most people realize. Individuals that attend elite institutions are exposed to far more opportunities than students at other colleges. For example, students at Ivy League universities have more access to highly coveted positions due to connections and the name brand of the institution. This is not to say that students at other colleges do not have these opportunities, but the number of wealthy and successful alumni of each elite institution compared to that of other colleges speaks for itself. Society's expectations of the graduates of elite colleges are much higher, and thus, are likely to be given more responsibility. Can you imagine if this responsibility were to fall into the hands of an under-qualified applicant, while someone who should have been in their place could be contributing more to society, but is unable to do so due to the ""virtues"" Affirmative Action?

A final word for the advocates of Affirmative Action. Should we allow some grace for Asians in the Olympics? After all, isn't it popularly conceived that they are too busy studying Math to play sports, and maybe a 5 second head-start in the 400 meter wouldn't be so bad. This is essentially the same effect that Affirmative Action is trying to achieve. Is Eminem's fame and success due to an Affirmative Action policy in the rap music industry? Didn't think so.",20,2,2335.8827597152635,college
Can someone explain why affirmative action is allowed in the admission process? It seems like legal racism.,,8,3,2390.946278233782,college
Why do I get so much flack for going to DeVry?,"I've been going to DeVry for a year now and all I see is bad reviews from years ago about how bad the school is. Even now people still make jokes towards me about choosing DeVry but I doubt those same people even went to a college. Personally I think it's an ok school. Not the best but not the worst. I'm going for my bachelors in NSA and I've really learned a lot, even though I've had a couple of online classes. And I feel pretty confident in getting a job after I graduate. So why all the hate?",9,0,2415.0035583263743,college
What recourse do I have against my Professor,"Recourse against my professor/univeristy?

I am a SUNY university student. I took a very intuitive class that required countless hours of studying. I just did miserably. Before the final exam our professor emailed our grades for each assignment. 

I emailed him back asking if it was possible for me to pass his course as I have had a difficult time. 

He responded bluntly. No. He said you it would be **impossible** for you to pass my class. He noted that even if I got a 100 on the last exam I would fall .9 pts short of passing. 

He went on to say that he recommened me focusing my attention on my other clsases, basically tell me to not waste my time taking his exam.

I took his advice. 

A week after the test he sent an email out to our class saying he decided to **drop our lowest 4 grades** on a particular daily assignment!

Conceivably, I could have passed this course -- and not even needed a 100 on the exam.

**TL;DR Teacher told me I could not pass class, focus on my other classes. He ended up dropping 4 of our lowest grades which would have made it conceivable I could have realistically passed**
",37,1,2478.380803696745,college
"Realistically, how hard is it to win a LOT of private scholarships to pay for your college?","About to commit to my dream school (that is also out of my families budget). If i don't competitively apply for private scholarships by the time I graduate i'll be in 60k or more in debt. 

However, my gpa is not that good because I took hard classes in high school. I have a 3.3 and a 1510 on the SAT (lol woops didn't study). Anyways, I heard tons of private scholarships go to waste because theirs not enough applicants, etc. I was wondering if I applied to a TON, do you think i'd get a good chunk of money (15+k?) 

I know this is a weird question, but I need some advice. ANyone have any experience on applying to private scholarships?",19,8,1632.6991486041525,college
[META] PSA to /r/college,"Stop complaining. Stop acting like college is the hardest thing anyone's ever done. Stop looking for pity.

I feel like every other topic is some variation of this: ""I got an F in a class I did no work in. I don't deserve this."" or ""I'm having a breakdown. I got a B in class, mommy isn't here to pick out my clothes, I'm thinking about dropping out/killing myself..."" Know what? Actually, you DO deserve that. You don't want to put in the work? You want to sleep and party your way through college? Damn right you deserve it. And as for the other ""sky is falling, college-is-soooo-tough :'("" type of topic? That's idiotic as well. You're a grown ass man or woman. Act like one. Be a little forward thinking and realize that the world doesn't revolve around you and that B you got in Basket Weaving 101 doesn't really matter in the long run.

Maybe it's just because I did my time in the military before going to college and have a different outlook on what's hard and what's fair. Maybe it's just because I actually put in the time and effort in school. Who knows. But I have no sympathy for people who whine and slack off but expect a shoulder to cry on. I have buddies overseas right now who would love to be in college right now.

I'm not saying it's wrong to post about stressing about finals during finals week. We're all going through that. I'm not saying it's wrong to freely admit that you messed up and want advice on how to salvage the situation. That's what this sub is for. It is wrong to use this sub to vent, rage, and complain about things that are squarely on your shoulders.

If you want someone to take pity on you or listen to how unfair it is the prof didn't see how brilliant you are for those couple of times you were awake in class, take it to /r/self. If you want solid advice or just to talk with like-minded individuals about college, by all means, post it here.

Thank you!

",3,0,1742.8441486041525,college
What is the easiest major you could possibly take?,"My friend and I are debating about this, I think it's Philosophy.",83,5,2347.0677134189673,college
A place for studying and pimples.,,1,5,646.2663592523005,college
Rejected for doing too well?,So my first choice school is a state college with fairly low SAT expectations and an average accepted gpa of around 2.5. I top the expected SAT by a solid 220 points and have a 3.5 gpa. Can I get rejected for having better scores than their average? ,5,0,1095.9613939745227,college
Pronoun Privilege,,12,0,1116.9672504560042,college
Making friends in college.,"I am currently in high school, and there are already a bunch of cliques established. I have friends, dont get me wrong, but Whenever I am in a class where I don't know anyone (usually electives because I don't always have the same interests as my friends), I am usually sitting their quietly, and whenever there are things we have to do with partners I am usually paired with people who also dont really know anyone. I really do not want this to happen in college, and was wondering if anyone had any advice on how to make friends who are good, and are serious about succeeding. I really want to try and stay away from the ""bad crowd"", and make friends with people who really wanna succeed. But my main concern and question is how can I arrive to College and make a lot of friends with similar majors, and meet nice people. I am kind of shy towards people who I don't know, but once I get to know them and we become better friends I guess I become a lot more comfortable around them. So in conclusion I am kind of scared that when I get to college, I will be the only person who doesn't have a bunch of friends, and will be alone. ",9,1,1125.0697736041523,college
Psych professor is preaching that evolution can't be proven on the first day,"My first day of psych class was a few days ago and my professor basically said evolution wasn't provable. She was going over the different ways we have studied human psychology and when she came to evolution she said ""This is one of those things that can't be disproven because it's a theory.."" She went on to say how ridiculous it was that evolution would play any part in her drive to have sex. 
Should I drop the class? In an auditorium full of probably 100 students, no one said a word. I wish I would have said something, but I didn't.  I never thought someone with a college degree would talk like that.
Should I drop this class?",13,1,1146.6328060115598,college
From this list what are the easiest humanities?,"I have to take 2 humanities for the AS that I'm going for but I'm going down the engineering route so none of these classes really interest me. Please help me pick out the easiest ones for me to take and not worry about failing. Thank you kind redditors!

* ARH2050 - Intro to Art History I
* ARH2051 - Introduction to Art History II
* ARH1000 - Art Appreciation
* HUM1020 - Introduction to Humanities
* HUM2220 - Greek and Roman Humanities
* HUM2223 - Late Roman and Medieval Humanities
* HUM2232 - Renaissance and Baroque Humanities
* HUM2234 - Enlightenment and Romantisicm Humanities
* HUM2250 - 20th Century Humanities
* HUM2410 - Asian Humanities
* HUM2461 - Latin American Humanities
* HUM2403 - Middle Eastern Humanities
* HUM2310 - Mythology
* PHI2600 - Ethics and Critical Thinking
* PHI2010 - Philosophy
* REL2300 - Understanding Religious Traditions

Edit: I'm taking the classes online.",20,1,1167.9620074004486,college
Is there a way to chat with everyone in my upcoming classes?,"So I'm 22 going into my first year of college for computer informations. (I like to design software). I start at the end of August and was wondering if there was an App or some kind of software that lets you type in your class number for your college or something (and other people doing the same thing) and create little chatrooms for each class? 

This has to be a thing. ",4,0,1173.3894263819302,college
"Okay, So I have been noticing a spike in the acceptance of Columbia University.","So, is it just me, or are a shit ton of people getting into this university? I feel like everyone who applies gets in. Of course that's not possible. But I easily know 40 to 50 people who got in. And this is a top10 college. I don't surround myself with geniuses or anything. The people who I know got in are average or slightly above average at best. Now as far as I can tell the reputation of this university is intact. But tell me what you guys think.....  ",6,0,1197.6259425856338,college
MIT MIT,"Hello! As a senior in high-school I have been doing research on which school I think would fit best for me. I like to think of myself as a mature hard worker who would skip a party on a Friday to finish a lab paper. But on the other hand I still love to attend stupid parties and social gatherings where my friends and I forget about our workload for a night. Would you say MIT has a good balance of socialization and work? If so could I get some examples of your own experiences?

Note: I do not expect to attend gatherings every weekend, really I was just wondering if the balance is just right.

Thanks!",3,0,1203.2704449004486,college
How do I find out if a certain community college has good programs or not?,"I'm living in Alaska wanting to move to Washington and I'm currently looking at South Puget Sound CC and Tacoma Washington CC. I'm thinking of entering into a 2 year medical tech program and they both offer a variety of them. My issue is living that I'm in Alaska and can't just go there cheaply to look into them, and I don't know what I'd even look for. 

Any advice? 

I'm thinking community college because I'd be living on my own trying to work and pay for school, I rather not take out loans and CC is fairly cheap compared to traditional colleges.",1,0,1218.9763245300783,college
Is 21 too late to start?,,13,2,1220.0024819374858,college
"I am about to enter into a state that has many qualities I hate. What sort of thins should I do here in order to got to a top school, as in transfer out of here. I am pretty dead set on my decision.",Should I do research freshmen year? Join clubs? Competition? I am a mechE major BTW!,2,1,1229.993153233782,college
Starting Freshman Year,"Hey guys,

I've just graduated high school (woo!) and have been accepted into Texas A&M for the fall.  Despite graduating well from high school, I'm still incredibly nervous about the whole process of going through and getting in the rhythm of everything.  

There seems like so much that I need to keep track of in so little time (my new student conference is in 2 weeks, and I have to have everything ready to register for classes then as well).  

Anyone have any tips that could help alleviate the stress and make it an easier transition?",7,2,1249.9506763819302,college
Help Deciding Major(s),"I am definitely going to be doing a double major. I know for sure that I want to major in political science (and preferably focus on something internationally) as well as either German or Russian. I will have taken German for all 4 years in high school (plus AP German) and have been considering going to a university in Germany for a masters  degree after college. I really like the Russian language and have wanted to learn it for a while now, and i think it would go well with a degree in political science because of our awkward relations with Russia. I wish to go there one day, but as I've never been, I don't know if I would want to go to for my masters there. Thanks for the help!",6,1,1287.9143569374855,college
Why do people assume that community college is easier than a university?,"Pretty sure it isn't, right?",7,1,1295.6859078634116,college
What should I major in?,"Hi,
I am a community college student taking general studies as a major.
I plan to transfer into a university next Fall. However, I am confused on what else to major in if things does not work out.
I regret majoring in my backup plan first rather than doing my general ed's because now I hate computer science. 
I thought I had liked coding. I had goals to create a social media app but, that didn't work out as you can see. I knew if I couldn't enjoy my classes what made me think that I would enjoy developing a new social media app and a lot of time and money goes into that. I did however, enjoy creating websites when I was in high school. I took a few web development classes. But after, awhile I started looking at everyone's else's work and they were so much more better than mines. I guess, I got discouraged also, because the fact that I found it difficult when it came to coding the HTML. Even though, it was only the basics and I felt stupid for that. I did try other majors as well such as art and music my main two passions but, they didn't work out and also, the jobs doesn't pay well unless you know someone from a good company and have a killer portfolio.
I thought about going into the medical field for a while but, I don't have the brains for that. I don't make straight A's and never have. It's difficult for me to do so.
I don't know what else to do! I don't want to go back into computer science because I can't see myself doing that as a career.
My other options aren't that great. I don't want to work retail for the rest of my life. If I do find a job. 
What should I do? I have been to technical college first and then community college. There are no trade schools where I live.
I'm just lost as to what to do next.
I don't even have mentors around my area or at my school to help.
I know at least two things about myself: I am not cut out for the medical field or for the STEM field like I thought I was going to be.
What helped you figure out what you wanted to do?
I'm only 20 years old and I'm trying to at least figure out a part of my life. 
Thanks for the advice!
",5,0,1322.2397504560042,college
Couple questions,"So hey, Im actually from the Netherlands but I really want to go to college in america, since I heard they throw parties like in the movies. Also I want to play a sport there like american football or basketball, so probably I need to go to a bad football college cause in the Netherlands we dont play football so I dont expect me being that good. But now the questions, my first one is at what age do you go to collage? In Netherlands it is 16 but I heard it was like 18 in America. Second: Would it be able for me to play football at some bad football college? Or maybe basketball? Or are they all quite good? Thirth: are the stories i hear true? Are college parties awesome? Is college just like in the serie blue mountain state (but with classes)? Maybe I have a couple more questions i'll put them down below. ",36,1,1336.3006069374858,college
Am email from my organic Chemistry TA,,2,0,1349.0254449004487,college
Welcome Back Weekend,"With the spring semester coming up right around the corner, even a week for some schools, I'm sure everyone is taking to their group messages filled with their college cliques. And in them they're planning out the welcome back weekend and syllabus week madness that will take place once everyone is back on campus. 

Personally, my friends are making a very classy move for our week back in the dormitory halls... ever clear and burnies. Wether it's jungle juice or ripping shots, it's happening and the results will be great... that is until the next morning. 

How are you all living out the first weekend back of the spring semester and the last syllabus week of the 2015-2016 school year? Make it one you won't remember!",2,0,1359.6624472152635,college
College stories (For a book I'm writing.),"So as stated above in the title I am writing a book. The setting it takes place in is you guessed it College so I was wondering if anyone had stories to share. They can be anything from parties, cool class experiences, daily life, or what not. My college experience was mundane so in doing this I don't have a whole lot to go off of. 

If this doesn't belong in this sub I would love it if you could direct me to the right place. :) I'm new to Reddit so please be courteous either post a story or just move on. Thank you for reading. ",2,0,1363.8464634189672,college
Attention All College/High School Students!,For any students out there that need help organizing there is a great new site out there called Binder Checked! They basically make these cool binders that you can customize with your initials or monogram. It also includes an organized calendar that is customized to your personal schedule. I got one and it's great! Go check it out their site (http://www.binderchecked.com) and follow them on Instagram @binderchecked,3,1,1456.9132921226708,college
Wrong academic counseling - grounds to sue?,"I'm going to a community college in CA and started seeing an academic counselor during my second semester. I asked him to set up my classes so that I would transfer out with an AST (associate's transfer degree). The counselor told me that I could follow the IGETC or BREADTH path and since I never intended to go to a UC but a CalState plus the fact that for my major I would have had to take more math classes with the IGETC, I chose to go with BREADTH. I have taken a couple of extra classes to fulfill the requirements for the AST and could have transferred a while ago had I opted not to go for the transfer degree. So last week I saw my counselor to sign the paperwork to graduate after this fall semester. He gave me the documents, I signed them and he then sent me on my way to admission and records to file it to my documents. Later on that day I get a phone call from an admission clerk, stating that my petition to graduate was declined as only the IGETC fulfills the requirements to get the AST. I have invested time off of work, money, time I could have transferred earlier etc. to get my AST and it seems like following the academic counseling I have been receiving made a lot of the work, effort, time and money worthless. My question: Do I have grounds to sue for compensation? Could they excempt me from the requirements and give me the AST due to the circumstances? ",10,1,1472.6976439745226,college
Sarah Silverman: Comedians Should ‘Change with the Times’ for PC College Students,,5,0,1493.2663939745228,college
"For Americans Seeking Affordable Degrees, German Schools Beckon",,0,0,1528.210792122671,college
Coolest things to put in a dorm room?,,14,1,1534.4123314745227,college
if you are going into college you might want to read this,,4,0,1548.8443337893375,college
Debating joining a frat? From what I hear it sounds like a pretty poor experience if it weren't for the party access. Is it still possible to go to plenty of parties (2-3 a week if you were so inclined) while not being a member of a university?,"It sounds like exclusive access into the best parties comes from either knowing someone at a frat or actually being a member at one. I've read some pretty terrible things about frats and living there (dress codes, racism, sexism, dirty house, unable to sleep) but going to lots of parties is definitely on my agenda. I'm a former nerd and really need a way to keep socializing. 

&nbsp;

I've made extraordinary improvements upon my life, going from jerking off twice a day to finally losing my virginity (I say finally even though I'm not a legal adult). 

&nbsp;

So say I just so happened to be  accepted to a university with top 5 of the ""best party scenes in the country"" according to niche,  would being a member of a fraternity drastically increase the number of parties I would be able to attend, maybe at least 1 a week?

&nbsp;

Thanks and sorry for the ignorant question.",8,0,1557.96255138193,college
my sociology professor tried to convince us that science is racist.,"Today in class my prof was covering the topic of racism. She started the lecture by having everyone say an Asian stereotype and claimed they were true. Then she went on to show us several pictures (some from text books) of the evolution of man and ranted how it was racist how the men were white and the cave men had darker skin (implying they represented blacks) , and that science is aiding to the major problem of racism. ",12,0,1660.8534888819304,college
China: 20% of UK's university will face closure,,2,0,1679.6195768448931,college
Going to college later this year from year 11. really don't know what i should be wearing/acting when there!?,"I am pretty smart (i would like to think) and am going to do chemistry,physics,computer science and game programming development (or something like that) for my A-levels. I will be attending the Joseph Wright college in derby (if i get the right grades after my exams) and i don't know what i should be wearing and acting on my first few days?

I mean i know i am meant to dress ""Smart but casual"" and act as behaved as you are meant to in school but out of lessons everything just seems to be put so vague. i have no clue wth i am meant to dress to look approachable and generally fine. but not look too smart and look like some prick or too casual and look like a chav... help? x'D

EDIT: i should of really added i am MALE so all the female advice isn't really helping. but thanks x'D",5,0,1694.0416833263748,college
Best Mac Apps for College?,,0,1,1694.2211856411893,college
"Are there colleges in the USA that offer instruction in Spanish? (Not Spanish classes, but all classes, with instruction in Spanish for those who don't speak English well)",,34,1,1695.350468048597,college
"In my second year of Economics major and starting to struggle and hate the tedious math problems, does it get better or should I just quit while I'm ahead?","Background: I'm one of those people who has no idea what they wanna be/do later in life but always found economics interesting so I'm majoring in it along with English because I like to write and econ so I don't graduate with just an english degree (DAE STEM?)

I enjoyed/did well in the principles classes, but am really disliking Intermediate Macro and Micro now that it has become so math based

Do the later level courses involve as much math or does it get back to more theory in the higher levels? Is it a good idea to stay an Econ Major if I can only barely scrape by with the math?
",17,0,1698.1258036967452,college
Yo how many of you love dino chicken nuggets as much as I do,That shit is off the hook.,2,0,1710.6818106411895,college
Textbooks - Why do professors insist on using the latest textbook?,"Why do professors insist on assigning the latest textbook in classes where the information rarely changes. Math, Chemistry/Science in general, and old Literature for example. The old editions 99% of the time have the same __exact__ information and won't change in the near future. These old editions also come in at 10-20% of the cost most of the time and that is the difference of spending $150 per semester or $1500 per semester. Most of the time I can't even get older editions because there is mandatory online content for $10 less ( so its $275 for the book new and with online content, and $265 if you just want the online content) the old editions will come in at $15-$50 so there is no incentive to be frugal and get the older edition.

Will we expect to see a change in the near future with this? What are the professors/universities getting in return for assigning these books? Are they getting funding for using the latest editions? I can only assume they are getting some sort of perks because why else would you want to take around $1000 out of each students pocket and set it on fire each semester? This is essentially what is happening due to the same material being available for much cheaper.",20,2,1733.2896462893375,college
"flunked all classes, academic dismissal.","I failed university and now I need to go to community college now and i'm nervous and it feels like a real step down from university i feel shameful(i know that sounds like a put down to community colleges out there but its just how i feel)..I'm not dumb or anything i just never ever gave a shit about school, i'm not sure what it is. i always say hey this time around i'm going to do better but i fall into the same slump over and over again. but i recently learned the importance of money and i know now i have to do something through school. i'm worried immensely, i have to tell my grandfather who i live with and i'm afraid he will kick me, out any advice?",12,0,1762.777227307856,college
Parents will not pay for school,"So I am expected to go to Otis this Spring Semester after applying in the Summer of 2014. They didn't have room for me in the fall so they said I could attend in the Spring of 2014. The problem is that I am considered a dependent but my parents will NOT help financially in any way. I contacted my financial advisor at the school and they just sent me a dependency appeal form that doesn't apply to me because I am in contact with my parents and live with them. I already filled out my fafsa after applying with my parents information.

The only alternatives that have been suggesting are to reconcile with my parents but that seems impossible for them to ever start paying for college again. Before applying to Otis I was attending the Art Institute but dropped out after a year realising it wasn't a good thing. Another alternative someone told me was to work until I am 24 and then apply as an independent student. By this time I won't even consider going back to college I assume.",14,1,1797.822400918967,college
Harvard is No. 438 in these college rankings,,4,2,1827.2485699004487,college
News Flash: You don't need college to have a thirst for learning,,1,0,1832.0737087893374,college
Can I get into UPenn?,"4.62 gpa (out of a 5.0 scale), 2060 SATs (but I'll be taking them again in October), and I'll be taking the ACTs in October also

I have a lot of extracurriculars, and most of my classes are APs.

Is this enough to get into UPenn?/What is the most important thing about the application (letters of recommendation, the essay, gpa, test scores, etc)?

EDIT: UPenn's essay prompt:
The Admissions Committee would like to learn why you are a good fit for your undergraduate school choice (College of Arts and Sciences, School of Nursing, The Wharton School, or Penn Engineering). Please tell us about specific academic, service, and/or research opportunities at the University of Pennsylvania that resonate with your background, interests, and goals. (400-650 words)",22,0,1861.7515791597082,college
"I failed my first math test, should I just give up?",I got a 66 on my math test (which is an F) not because I got the problems wrong but just because I didn't solve them the way she wanted and I got points off which led to a 66. I was never good at math and I always struggled to pass math class in high school. We have minor and major our minor is 3.51% and our major (tests) are 40%. It seems like its game over already and if I have to take more math classes I'm done. I might try and work at BMW or something on the factory line.,9,0,1872.336266659708,college
"College senior here, I don't drink...","So I don't wanna get into a long tirade so I'll just throw this out here, I'm a recent transfer student to a large state university and I don't drink, never have, never plan on it. Because I don't drink I really don't party EVER because you don't party if you don't drink. Before I came here I attended a Community College so I never really experienced true college life before. Because I'm new I really don't know anyone here, so how do I go about making friends and basically have a normal college experience without alcohol?",8,0,1887.6670189745225,college
America's Top Colleges 2014,,1,0,1900.252377770819,college
Senior week tips?,I'm about to head down to the beach for senior week and I will be doing senior week stuff. Any tips?,6,0,1953.2200861041524,college
"I missed my first summer class, should I worry?",What kind of questions should I ask my professor/teacher?,8,1,1968.9513939745227,college
Getting Through College Without Loans. Pro Tips!,"Howdy,

This is a big wall of text. I am very thorough.

I received my BBA/MBA in Finance this week (that's a masters level). I am 23 years old. My family made over $200k a year every year that I attended school and I was paying $700 a semester for grad level classes.  I am here to provide advice and tips on how to get through college with no debt!

DISCLAIMER: You don't have to do everything and if you haven't done something, don't worry about it. Start where you are. Every little thing makes a difference.

**What to do in High School**

* **AP**

I attended a public high school. I took a bunch of AP classes. Every class was free and my AP tests were subsidized. I passed every AP test (some with better grades than others!). Going into college I had 25 credit hours. If you do well in high school, you will be rewarded later on.

* **CLEP Tests**

AP isn't even the best way to get credits. [CLEP tests](http://clep.collegeboard.org/) are by far the easiest way to receive college credit for classes. Basically, this is a program that allows you to test out of classes and receive college credit without taking the classes. [They have 33 exams in 5 subject areas.](http://clep.collegeboard.org/exam) If you are serious about your college education, you should be serious about CLEP. College Algebra can be studies online via dozens of resources [\(Khan academy\)](https://www.khanacademy.org/) for free! The exams cost $80 and will give you 3 credit hours if you pass. That's about $27 a credit hour.

Look at it this way... If you are determined enough to go to college, you should be determined enough to study on your own. If you can study on your own and push yourself, you can get rid of the first year of college for under $1,000 and never have to attend a pointless class. This should be your starting point.

* **Dual Credit**

Don't forget about dual credit classes! These are classes which count both for college and high school at the same time. The most beautiful part of these classes is that most are pass/fail oriented. This means that if you make a C or an A, there is no difference if you are already accepted into college (check grade requirements at the college you are transferring to! There is no guarantee this works for everywhere). Not every high school offers these, but they are great if you have them near you.

*If you take these three routes seriously in only your senior year and/or the summer before you begin college, there is no reason you should not skip a semester! Keep in mind that you should focus on the universities you want to go to. Don't take anything that will not count toward your degree plan in college.*

**Choosing a University**

Pro tip: Do not go to an out of state college. Your in state college is just as good unless you are going to an Ivy League school or technical school for a specific degree.

* **Community College Route**

Community college is a great place to start. Everyone I know knocks on them, but they are cheap and easy. Whenever you graduate from your 4 year school the name on the diploma isn't a community college. They are cheaper than any other school as well.

Once you finish your 2 year degree, transfer to a 4 year public college nearby and graduate with a full degree. 2 year degrees are great if you don't know what you want to do. Most freshmen don't know what they want to do. [80% of students will change their major at least once while in college.](https://www.google.com/search?q=percentage+of+students+who+change+major&rlz=1C1LENN_enUS495US495&oq=percentage+of+students+who+change+&aqs=chrome.1.69i57j0l3.7340j0j7&sourceid=chrome&es_sm=93&ie=UTF-8) What most people don't realize is that people get into debt and graduate in 5-6 years instead of 4 years because of changing their major and/or transferring. Nothing feels worse than taking a class that you did not need that you did not enjoy and spending lots of money doing it.

* **4 Year Public Route**

If you can get into a 4 year university right from the start, you might want to do that! There is only one reason to attend a 4 year university over community college right out of high school: scholarships.

The first thing you need to realize about 4 year public institutions is that there are deadlines... lots of deadlines. The university does not make exceptions. If you apply for scholarships early there is a decent chance that you will be able to receive them. Some scholarships will last your entire 4 years and are renewed every year. You are only eligible to receive them upon entering university.

* **4 Year Private Route**

This might surprise you but this is the route that I took. Annual expenses were estimated at $32K a year, but I paid $1.5K. There are numerous scholarships available at these types of universities. You will receive a large amount for grades that is guaranteed at most (10-15K is average next year). Those scholarships last the entire 4 years. You are also eligible to receive extra scholarships for a slew of reasons. Eagle scouts, religious, race/ethnicity, first generation... I am not lying when I say the list goes on and on.

You may disagree with me, but this is Reddit so who cares! 4 Year Private Colleges that charge you $25K+ a year are a scam. Your education does not cost that much. They are paying for more administration, rampant inflationary spending, and unnecessary things that you probably won't even take advantage of. College isn't a vacation or an experience. College is a place that you go to learn. The price of education is rising because we are moving away from learning and moving toward an experience. You have to ask yourself... is the experience of this college worth $100,000? Probably not.

The average debt of a student who graduates from my university is $26K. Don't be those people.

**How To Get MONEY!**

To start this process you need to fill out a [FAFSA](https://fafsa.ed.gov/). This is the US governments way to ensure your income is what you say it is and see if you need money. You are ineligible for financial aid until you fill this out.

You might want to [google financial aid FAQ](http://www.finaid.org/questions/faq.phtml) for simple questions?

Always apply for financial aid. My roommate received $1,000 just for filling out his FAFSA at the local community college he attends. If you are need based, you will receive thousands of dollars more!

You should go talk to a financial aid counselor during your application process. Don't wait. They should be happy to assist you and talk to you about potential aid. Every university is different and every place has their own scholarships. Ask about anything that makes you unique. Do not take no for an answer. I was told that there was nothing available 6 times before I received over $35K in a grant that they failed to mention to me. Determination is key. Don't be belligerent or demand aid, but keep asking at all times of the year.

The financial aid system is just that, a system. They have specific deadlines that you probably don't know about. Between a quarter and halfway through each semester they will receive a large sum of money back from the government. Basically, some money is returned to the government every semester and then redistributed based on certain criteria. That means that if you go into the office on the right day, there will be hundreds of thousands of dollars that just entered their account that they need to disperse to students. You might get lucky for no other reason.

[Visit one of these websites. They are your states higher education agency.](http://www.schev.edu/highered/stateeducationagencies.asp) These agencies will have information on grants and loans that are guaranteed to you based on criteria. In Texas there was a grant in which if you graduated in 4 years you would receive an extra $25,000 in financial aid. At certain public universities less than 4% of students took part in it. Keep in mind, this was a 0% interest loan if you failed to meet the criteria. People were passing up a no interest loan because they simply did not know!

**Government AID**

This section is going to make many users cringe, but you need to know it anyways.

If you can [become an independent](http://www.fastweb.com/financial-aid/articles/699-fafsa-and-the-independent-student), you can receive thousands of dollars extra in financial aid and government assistance for housing and living expenses.

Independents who are attending university are entitled to food stamps, section 8 housing, and medicaid. That means that your food, housing, and health insurance are all covered for free.

Not only do you get that stuff for free, but you will also almost assuredly receive more financial aid. Because financial aid is need based, an independent with no job or a minimum wage job will receive more government assistance than someone whose parent's incomes are considered. In this instance, it pays to be poor.

***Cringeworthy example***: I am 20 years old and my parents make too much for me to get scholarships, but they don't want to pay for my college. I can find anyone I know and get legally married to that person (maybe a roommate?) in December. I am now legally independent. The following year I will be eligible for extra financial aid and welfare. This is especially useful if I am currently unemployed.

Many people will be upset about this example. I am extremely upset that this is possible. Government reform needs to happen. However, it is 100% legal and will save you thousands of dollars if you are in need. If student loans are piling up, DO IT!


**TLDR**

Earn credits before college from AP and CLEP

Community College>everything else (not counting possible scholarships)

Apply for financial aid and work hard at the process

Don't be shy to get government assistance if you are an independent. You deserve it and pay for it in your taxes.

**SIDE NOTES:** I do not recommend joining the military. I do not have space to write about getting a job.",9,0,1977.7610930485969,college
Do you vote?,"In my country, we are having elections. Which got me a little sad to think that most of my college aged cohorts won't be voting. So reddit, do you vote? Be it for your student's union/school elections, or at a national level. If you don't vote, why don't you? 

",12,0,1989.3561624930412,college
wondering if there are any online student registration in college/university for free?,"Im interested in taking up online course for free and possibly with certificate, from this college/Univ. any one know of online student registration in college/university for free? so that i can have atleast on my CV. Im thinking of technical course. Appreciate your help.",1,0,2009.3315444374857,college
Ask r/College: How hard will it for me to major in Pre-Med?,"This is more so a very broad question because I am honestly just a typical student. I wasn't the smartest, but I wasn't the most dumb. (more on the dumb side than smart). I was really wondering how hard it would be for me as a freshman undergraduate to start my path into majoring Pre-Med? Is it really math based? If Pre-Med is not for a guy like me, than what kind of medical or nursing major is possible for me?",7,1,2023.2613361041524,college
Can I and/or Should I start preparing for College. (I am a Sophomore in high school),"I am going to take and currently taking IB, AP, CP and Honors classes. And wondering if I should start preparing for college. I am leaning to an engineer or a computer job. I have no money prepared for college, my mother will be leaving shortly after i graduate highschool, and I am wondering if I should take the school route or join the military and save some money since I come from a low class family. I would appreciate any and all comments and tips.",7,2,2042.825502770819,college
Paying for college,"I am a high school senior whose been accepted to a fairly good college but I will have to pay for it pretty much by myself. My minimum wage job hasn't allowed me to save up very much money. My plan is to apply for financial aid and student loans, also I have started a few scholarships. But I was just wondering if anyone had some advice for me. ",7,1,2077.8904564745226,college
HS Senior(Not doing well),"I'm a high school senior, well, at least that's what I'm considered. I've blew off the majority of high school(I probably got an attendance of 60%) and my GPA is probably 1.0 overall. BUT, here's the thing. I got a sort of 'redo' if you will with going to an alternative school(I can't explain in detail or else I risk divulging personal info) I have the chance of graduating on time as well as bringing my GPA up to an acceptable level. I've also been told my highschool teachers that I write on a college graduate level. 

I horribly failed and barely attended the first 3 years of highschool. my freshmen year attendance was 40%. my sophmore year I pulled together with MUCH better attendance and grades but I ultimately stopped going to school near the end of the year and I fucked myself, bad(I was passing all my classes, but that didn't matter I didn't get the credits for the classes because I missed the finals). Junior year I started going to the alternative school, I started off strong(like I always do) but once again fell with my irresponsibility with drugs and friends. Now it's my last year, with the help of the alternative school my GPA is probably 2.75, right now and my attendance is doing better, too. 

What do y'all think my chances are of applying to a good college and getting accepted with those credentials?

TL;DR. I'm an irresponsible lazy drug addict with great capabilities and I really want to go to college, despite my actions. What are my chances?

EDIT: Also, if I do have a chance, any advice to go along with it?",17,0,2078.1277828634115,college
The Most Interesting Places To Go To College,,0,1,2100.2260699004487,college
Deadline is imminent and I need answers as soon as possible!,I'm applying for Brown University and I'm submitting my application tomorrow. I don't know what exactly is required to be turned in tomorrow and I'm stressing over it badly. What needs to be sent in?,3,0,2177.8974124930414,college
"First night at college, just need some support","I'm currently laying in my disheveled dorm room with stuff still everywhere, and I'm crying my eyes out. I'm an only child who loves my parents and I absolutely am going to miss them so much. I'm saying goodbye to them tomorrow, they're spending the night in a hotel. I just keep thinking about it and I lose it again every time.  
  
I love the college but I don't know if I'm going to be able to do this, to live away from them like this. It's just a shock. I like my roommate shes so positive but again I just don't know if I can do this.  
  
Sorry if this is the wrong place.",12,0,2240.8232458263747,college
Anyone want to help me pay for college? I just lost my job. I need ideas.,"I just lost my job because someone broke into my store and when the alarm company called me about it (im the closest one to the store), I was sleeping (at 4am). I could really use some help. My college semester starts in a week and I'm here literally in the middle of the night trying to figure out my entire situation.  Someone have an idea on how I can make an honest quick buck to make the down payment for the semester? ",5,0,2243.4905606411894,college
MacBook Air vs Retina Pro,"I'm currently deciding between these two laptops (both 13 in). Which would you recommend? 

I'm not going to be using much graphic-intensive programs but I heard the retina display is better . I know the Retina pros are going to be upgraded soon with haswell but I heard the only big change will be more battery.

[In case you don't know; these are the specs](http://www.apple.com/why-mac/compare/notebooks.html)",16,3,2256.603268974523,college
This is why I want to go to college,"I wrote this a while back, and it explains why I want to go to college. In the small essay I talk alot about my health, the reason for this is because I got a knee injury that has affected my health and confidence for a while now. I am bullied alot and excercize gives me confidence.

College

Why am I going to college?


I feel like I am going to college because I HAVE to, just like school, it is a requirement society ponders upon me, or at least my parents make me believe it is that way. I have received an education that systematically prepared me for a higher level education. Instead of thinking critically, I learned formulas and memorized a set of rules to do something. Consequently, I have learned the ways of someone who listens, not someone who speaks. What I mean by this is that I have learned to follow rules, and not create them. But,  I want to go to college to learn and DISCOVER new things,  because it is a place where different minds that come from different backgrounds get together to create the ideas for the next generation. I don’t want to go to college because my parents or society says it is a NEED. I want to go to college to increase my experiences in order to create a more enjoyable ‘memory album’ I can look back to. College should not only be a place where you discover yourself and learn the stories of the people you meet there, but also a place to challenge yourself physically and mentally. However, if you cannot enjoy the challenge or do your best, it feels like a burden that becomes a need one must complete. 


As of right now I do not have a schedule to follow, my body is weak, and my mind is tired. I am tired of overthinking and of not having a positive influence or any reason for me to complete my dreams. All of this because I am distracted by too many pleasures that relax me to the point where a challenge would just create stress. Here is where sports come in, if I am able to do something for myself that influences my thoughts and physic, and then I am able to feel confident.  In other words, when I  exercise, it is a time of thinking and of confidence. I know what I am doing, and I am challenging my body in a healthy way to become stronger and ready for what is to come. Consequently, my body learns to be healthy; If my body wants to be healthy and feels strong, it challenges my mind to do the same thing. My mind automatically creates a scenario where my health is the priority. And that follows the idea that ‘a healthy body has a healthy mind’. With all of this in mind, my life becomes organized. 


A rested and strong body, a confident and awake mind create an unstoppable person that wishes to just enjoy life’s simplest pleasures, knowledge. If I am strong and smart, what is left to do? I have tamed myself, and by doing so, I am ready for anything. For college, for a job, for a relationship and for any challenge that is to come. No matter how bad a situation is, if I know that I am healthy mentally and physically, nothing can go wrong. Nothing can make me feel down because the only thing  that matters on my personal matters is my health. I might fail an exam, I might lose a loved one, I might lose a bet, or maybe just have a day that follows with many unlucky events, but if I know I am healthy, then what can stop me? Confidence comes from knowing that nothing can go wrong, and that thought alone creates a person, no….a man, that can do whatever he enjoys and wants to accomplish. Because no matter how many times he fails a challenge, he will get up knowing that eventually he will reach success on what he thinks is important. 


I am not in a hurry to graduate, there is no NEED to do so. And I am grateful to be in the position where I can decide my future based on what I enjoy. I can therefore, choose a job or as I think, a challenge, that I can enjoy. But before everything, I must improve my health. ",3,0,2261.2549587893373,college
Do I even have a chance?,"I've done a bit of research and found out that this subreddit typically doesn't like these kind of posts, but I'm really worried right now and I didn't know who else to ask.

I'm coming up on my senior year of high school and I have this horrible nagging doubt in the back of my mind that I'm not going to be accepted into any good colleges. The main reason is because of how crappy my high school profile must look so far. I've gone to a horribly underdeveloped private school for all three years and, as such, I've had no opportunities for honors/AP courses or extracurricular activities. Luckily, I'm actually going to the public high school next year, but my counselor was only able to fit me in to one AP course. I have a 4.0 and got a decent score on the ACT, but I'm still really nervous about the lack of academic rigor and extracurriculars.

Do I have even the slightest chance of being accepted to a good school? I'm not looking to go to an Ivy or anything, because I know that I have no chance in hell of getting in to one of them. I'm looking more towards schools like Northwestern and Washington University in St. Louis.

TL;DR No AP courses or extracurriculars available in three years of high school, tripping out about being able to go to a good school after graduating. Help pls? :(",20,0,2288.996185641189,college
"I transferred colleges after my freshman year. I'm a junior now, AMA",,2,0,2344.9373314745226,college
College Freshmen,What are the biggest/funniest mistakes you made your freshman year of college.,3,0,2369.9111624930415,college
Let the Rage Flow: Most Pointless College Majors?,DOT DOT DOT...,27,0,2482.738569900449,college
"Received an 89% in one of my classes, is it possible for my professor to numb it to an A-?","Hear me out. I care about my studies. I went to every single class, asked questions, and showed that I cared. But an 89% is a 3.3, one percent from a 3.7. I am in Air Force ROTC and will be pursuing to be a pilot, and GPA is the number one factor, so I am working my ass off to get a high GPA. 

Is there any chance my professor would bump it up? I emailed her Thursday but I haven't heard anything. I don't want to obsessively call her, but I want to know what I can do, if anything, to receive the extra 13 points to get to 900/1000. I am currently at 887/1000, an 88.7%. I'm probably kicking myself too hard for this, but it means a lot to me to get a good GPA in all my classes. And it's kinda frustrating that I am 13 points away from a .4 difference in GPA. ",19,1,2496.5300629560043,college
guest lecturers during the final week of class,,0,0,2508.0871347152633,college
"Anyone else sick of case-by-case ""Should I..."" posts? ","I'm growing tired of seeing posts such as ""Should I accept X offer, or Y offer?"" and ""Should I apply to X or Y""? 

IMO, this subreddit should be about sharing relevant news & tips to college students, regardless of their institution. 

OP's looks for advice about a specific institution should post in that specific university subreddit. ",2,0,2510.945803696745,college
I am dreading going to college because it won't live up the hype/ image of college,"I am going to  small liberal arts college with approx 3000 people in it, I am starting next month, so I begin a semester late. The thing is this college is located in the Bostonian suburbs and is not considered much of a party school,in fact this college is full of typically nerdy kids.  The college is instead very academically focused and kids mostly hang out in there dorms during leisure time, studying or watching netflix. 

I am starting to really dread going to this college because I won't have the typical college experience of partying and I won't know as many cool and interesting people. 

To any people who attended small bubble colleges, how was your experience, was it as bad as people say, is there a silver lining for someone who wants to occasionally?

I can't transfer out because I already am starting a semester late. ",17,2,2521.7607689745228,college
College panic moment,"Hey r/college,
I've had a bit of a panic moment regarding college and my application options. Up to now, I was convinced I wanted to apply to a certain small liberal arts college that is well respected academically. Recenty I've been having second thoughts about location, name recognition (although I guess that's kind of a shallow consideration), and academics. 

I'd like to major in either physics or mathematics, and go on to a higher degree in one of those fields.

As for the school, I'm looking for urban or suburan, small-midsize, well known, and good academics.

I have a 95+ GPA and my SATs were 700 math, 690 reading, and 620 writing, fantastic recommendations and good extracurriculars. I like the idea of a selective school, but I don't know if I have the numbers for it. 

Any suggestions, thoughts, or ""get ahold of yourself"" advice would be greatly appreciated! Thanks",4,1,2560.098674067115,college
Going to be a high school senior in Southern California with about a 3.8 GPA / 2060 SAT score.  What colleges (public and private) might I have a good chance at going to?,"Considering the grades from my sophomore and junior years, it comes out to around a 3.8 GPA.  I have a 2060 on my SAT.  I've obtained a 5 in AP Biology and a 4 in AP English Language and Composition.  I was on the volleyball team for two years and a Vietnamese Student Association for 3.  Additionally, I've been with the Boy Scouts since 1st grade and I'm close to becoming an Eagle Scout.  

I'm mainly interested in computer science and biology (i've been looking into bioinformatics, but I do want to be able to apply computer science to other fields of work).

My main question is:  What colleges might be a good match for me?

I really appreciate any input.  Thanks a lot.

EDIT: Forgot to mention: I've been to visit UC Irvine, UCLA, UC Berkley, UC San Diego, and UC Santa Barbara.  Out of them, I'd say UCSD and UCSB are at the top of my list.  I loved their feel and there's so much life at UCSB.",10,0,2624.9056300856337,college
Why are the practice questions in class so much easier?,"Like are the professors actually trying to meme us? Like the shit they go over in class is at best a tenth as difficult as whats on these practice midterms. Like seriously, I don't get why we can't go over questions like these in class?",4,0,2.078812956004231,college
Do you think it's cringe if I talk about anime in my speech?,For public speaking class we must pick something FICTIONAL for our story-telling speech. Would you cringe if I reenacted an anime? Btw 90% of the class is sorority girls so I'm having second thoughts about this.,30,0,6.068662493041268,college
I made an app to connect with college students! poncho.app 🐶,"Poncho is an anonymous community of verified college students. Everyone who signs up gets assigned their university’s flair, which adds to the conversation. There are many topics (like subreddits) for different majors and a range of interests, and also private topics for each university. 

I think this is the perfect app for r/college, so I really hope you guys enjoy Poncho! Feel free to ask me anything!

Here it is - www.poncho.app",2,1,19.176579159707934,college
"For those that try to balance an active spiritual life with professional life, do you believe that it may be a good idea to acquire a degree in divinity alongside a professional degree?",,3,0,26.539414807856083,college
Does college ever get harder?,"Hey all, I don’t want this to come off as arrogant or overconfident because I know a lot of people really have to grind out college but....for me I’ve always found it to be remarkably easy. I started college when I was 19 aiming for a Political Science degree. The classes were so easy that after a year and a half I more or less lost interest , stopped attending class, and flunked out (I was also having some pretty serious health problems at the time). The biggest problems I had were that I felt like I wasn’t being rewarded for effort (whether I put a lot of time, thought, and research into a paper or just shat something out the night before it was due I still got an A) and I felt like I wasn’t learning anything, in fact I often found myself catching the professor making mistakes. After flunking out I took a few years to get my health problems sorted out, got married, and at the behest of my wife decided to return to college, tho I switched to a different campus and opted for an Entrepreneurship degree with an Innovation/Computer Science minor. So far I’ve found that while I am now at least learning things in some of my classes, I can still steamroll over most assignments with minimal effort and get an A. I’ve even taken some upper division courses now, and have noticed no difference. Is this normal? I felt like I had teachers in high school who graded more harshly than this.",9,0,35.61669490044868,college
Am I legally able to access campus security footage of myself?,Campus security has me on video taking posters off the walls of public areas and I was wondering if I have the ability to legally see/obtain the footage of myself. My college is in New York if that makes a difference.,6,0,37.85749351155979,college
From a high schooler:,Please tell me grades don’t matter in high school,10,2,63.083708789337564,college
Am I ruining my social life in my class' group chat?,"20M, entering a small liberal arts college in 2 weeks. I was added into my class' group chat with all 250+ people in my batch. Some people are already getting very popular by constantly creating content and helping the international students. I'm not sure how to help but I want a slice of the popularity, so often I'd chime in and try to be as helpful as I can. But sometimes I get ignored, and when I do I unsend my messages because it feels really bad. Is it possible that some of them find me annoying? Very few of them seem to add me on Instagram, and one of them has just unfollowed me. I'm not sure what I did wrong and what I can do to become popular like those other people.",13,2,92.36294490044867,college
Is a masters degree an accomplishment ?,I’m excited for grad school but masters only take 2 years.,13,0,128.89626665970792,college
"I dont know what to study and I have to decide soon? (Please help me, i'm so worried)","1) I'm going to attend a community college

2) I'm horrible at math

3) I like cars, however wouldn't want to get a job in them as the pay isn't good (mechanic etc)

4) I'm sorta interested in tech stuff, but again theres a ton of math in that and i suck at it.

5) I have to decide in 5 days.",11,1,133.27760925230052,college
That moment,When I remember I live in Denmark and I get paid to go to college.,4,0,146.39831527081904,college
"Really dislike my school, upcoming sophomore","Just to open with that I’m not leaving this school, but I hate my college life.  I go to case western reserve, the parties suck, the girls are not pretty (which is not an exaggerated statement believe it or not) and it feels like half of the school is from China (actual foreign students that barely speak English).

It’s an incredible amount of work, but what’s the point of doing any of it if my goal is to not be rich? I feel like I do not fit in anywhere on campus.  I do not want to have a stereotypical college experience, I don’t expect that. All I want is to have the strong academics in addition to meeting people that are actually similar to me.
It’s just difficult to see so many others having so much fun... and I spend many of my nights studying it alone.. oh well!

If anyone is applying yo case, you’ll love it if you are on the spectrum and play an absurd amount of video games, if you are a state school dude, you’ll die, and if you’re like me, you won’t fit in.",12,1,148.05965786341164,college
I Have a 3.747 GPA in College and I Need at Least a 3.75 Semester GPA to Maintain it and a 4.00 to Raise it.,"I can afford to go to school and get an education, so, I'm so blessed, but I have a hard time with 'regressing' in anything (especially GPA and grades) so I'll have to work my ass off again. I only need a 3.00 in my masters' program to stay (again, grateful I get to be a part of it) but that doesn't mean I'm satisfied with that. How do those of you who have higher GPA's that are hard to maintain manage to emotionally deal with it? Because logically, I know it's expected, but I just have a hard time. I've never had this high of a GPA before (I've had a lot of mental illness, chronic illness, etc) and I'm new to having to work so hard to stay at the GPA I'm at. But I'm already stressing about it. I'd appreciate advice/assurance. ",1,1,156.06188008563385,college
What's the funniest finals week emotional break down you've seen?,,3,0,162.9993106411894,college
Pro-tip: Take the GRE your freshman year.,"Look, it's all stuff from high school math, and the vocab and writing section won't take much practice to do fine.

I am taking it today in about an hour, and I am wondering why I didn't do this during a quiet summer or when geometry was still a tiny bit fresh, and not during finals of my 3rd year. The scores are good for 5 years, and if you decide you want to retake it for a better score, then you have time to plan for that effectively. I only have a couple months now until I need to start applying to schools. 


Junior/senior years are often much more stressful than your first 2 years. If you know you are going to grad school, just take it so you don't have it hanging over your head.

Edit: yes, you should only take the GRE if you are sure you want to go to grad school. If you are unsure about grad school, that's a great reason to put it off.",5,0,175.43463471526348,college
Boys with nail polish,A lot of boys in my campus (I go to FSU) have been wearing black nail polish. Is this a trend or something?,5,0,188.86081527081902,college
Anyone else afraid to express their opinions in class?,In my management class we were talking about parental leave and I really wanted to say something but as usual I was afraid. I didn’t want my classmates to hate me. I know it sounds silly but it is. We also talked about the gender pay gap earlier in the semester but again I didn’t want to express my opinion. That class is 19 women and 4 male. It would be stupid to say their is no pay gap. ,9,1,204.41884767822646,college
Living with females,"During my freshman year of college I have made many friends living in the dorms, but for next year I've decided to live off campus. Originally I was going to get a house with my male friends, but our plan fell through. After that I was asked to live with 3 girls as they needed one more roommate. After some consideration, I decided to sign the contract and pay the deposit.

The house itself is pretty spacious for the price we are paying, with four separate bedrooms, two bathrooms, kitchen, living room, dining room, and basement. One of the main selling points for me was that since I was the only male, the girls would live in the three upstairs bedrooms, and I would get the master bedroom on the main floor with my own bathroom connected.

As for the girls, they all seem pretty focused on their education and sports, with the occasional party thrown in. I've known them all for awhile and they all seem alright, but I am well aware that there will be the occasional drama to deal with and I signed the contract well aware of this. To some guys this must be like a dream come true, but I have absolutely no intentions of having any kind of relationship with these girls outside of just being a friend and a good roommate. 

My family consists of my brother, dad, and mother, so I've never really experienced living in a female dominated house, and I really have no idea what to expect. 

So I guess I just wanted to ask some of the guys (if any) who lived/live with multiple girls in or outside of college if theres anything that I should know about living with mostly females.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",5,1,220.942215733782,college
What’s is the point of a science major if you don’t have a fantastic GPA?,"Maybe I’m missing something, but what potential jobs are there for, say, bio majors who struggle to keep a 3.2? I understand how lucrative med school is (if you have a 3.8+ gpa), but a bio degree alone has a starting salary of like $25k.",7,0,225.2884194374857,college
Just got accepted into an Ivy-League Master's Program: How do I pay for it?,"Hello all.

I am a first-generation college student and am proud to have just been accepted into Georgetown University for my Master's degree.

I did not qualify for funding for the first year, which will cost me about $40,000.

How can I pay for it wisely?",6,0,237.89576897452275,college
"How did you guys pack your (large) pillow and irregular shaped kitchen utensils (e.g. knives, plate/bowls, electric kettle and I guess a rice cooker if you are Asian)","Or do you guys just immediately head out to the supermarket to replenish these? 

I am bringing in one large luggage and I feel like the pillow is taking a lot of room. My plate/bowls are more or less ""irregular shaped"" and I can't put them all together in one section of the luggage. The most difficult one is the knives...I don't understand why most shops don't sell a sheath to go with it. 

Anyways tell me how you guys do it.

EDIT: flying out...can't drive.",15,0,245.59229675230054,college
"Why is trade school not considered ""real college""?","Even in this subreddit, I see users who look down people who attend trade school (even if they never went to any kind of college... okay...). At the very least, I see it as equal to community college, which takes about the same of time. It's more expensive than CC, yes, though not the most expensive kind of school (at least, in my area; that would be the local university, which is 30K a year for tuition alone, no matter what you major in). What's to look down on because someone found an alternative that works better for them?",23,0,247.30287545600424,college
Can I technically drop out even though this is my last semester before graduation?,,11,2,269.3986046226709,college
The Case for Dropping Out of College,,21,0,306.3128291597079,college
I'm going to fail calculus and I don't know what to do,"as you can tell by the title i'm in differential calculus this semester and I'm doing absolutely horrible. I'm writing my second midterm tomorrow and I just know I'm going to fail it. You probably think i'm just being down on myself when I say that but no I really am. The exam covers derivatives, related rates, optimization problems, linear approximations and absolute minimum and maximum. To some of you this might not sound so bad but I can barely do a basic derivative. I've gone to every lab section and they just frustrate me and i'm too embarrassed to ask questions. I'll spend half an hour starting at question flipping through my notes trying to figure out how to do it and by the time I decide to move on to the next question the rest of the class is like 2 questions ahead of me, so asking would be very embarrassing, especially considering my TA is a very loud person, either way i'm finished the lab sections so there's nothing I can do about those. My girlfriend told me to get a tutor but it's very difficult for me to make time for tutoring. I take a bus to school everyday and each trip to/from the school takes around 30/40 minutes each depending on how lucky I get with catching busses. My classes are EXTREMELY spread out throughout the day too so it makes it very difficult. For reference tomorrow is my second midterm and I scored a 24% on the first one (yes you read that right.). Each midterm counts for 15% of my grade and my final is 50% so it is possible that I could pass but honestly I don't see it. Please somebody just give me some advice.

&#x200B;

EDIT: For reference my program is an honours in computer science. I love the programming course that I'm in but struggle everywhere else.",27,2,327.8133384189672,college
College seems easy.,"I see many posts about people stressing over their first year in school. But personally College has been easier than high school. Less class, more parties, more people, less homework. 

Maybe because I’m majoring in History and Politics, not STEM. It’s just really disheartening to see so many people unhappy with College, while I’m having the time of my life. 

Do most of you enjoy college? Maybe Reddit is disproportionately negative about their college experience.

",7,0,346.1079333263746,college
Dorm Drama (Please dear God help),"I am a freshman at a state university. My classes are going amazingly, I love both my majors, and I have made a lot of friends, both close and casual.

My major issue here is that I live in a dorm of only high-achieving people in the business school (scholarship program perk). They are all very similar and there's a group of them that absolutely loves drama. My roommates are in that group, and, even though I really like and get along well with my roommates, I would rather not deal with the group dynamic that they're a part of.

I'm friends with the majority of people in their group (close with about four out of seven and friends with about six out of seven), and yet they still exclude myself and my friends. As I said, I have plenty of other friends and barely even want to be included here. I just can't get over the very obvious and purposeful exclusion. It's borderline bullying. Last night, one of the girls said something decidedly mean about my friends essentially right in front of me (she didn't know I was there, but she didn't care to check either). She said it to two people that I am friends with and neither said a word of protest (one of then comforted me later though). 

I do not understand their mentality at all. I get that some people won't like other people and that friend groups are natural. What I can't stand is the overt superiority complex. I would rather not exist to them at all if that's how they're going to treat me when I'm not around.

I don't want to move dorms because I have many actual friends here (out of 50 people on the floor, only about five are causing problems. The rest are fine).

How do I cope with living in this situation? It's really affecting my mental health.",3,1,361.2215097152635,college
[Hypothetical] Would you retake a class to get a 4.0?,"Let's say that you have a 3.99, you're about to graduate, and you only have one class that you didn't get an A in and you know if you retook it you could get an easy A. Would you retake this class just to get a 4.0? Would it be worth it?",11,0,390.9574703634117,college
About To Leave Home,"The title is pretty self explanatory. I will be leaving my home for the dorms in less than 48 hours. Initially, I looked forward to it and now it hit me. I'll be leaving the place where I grew up for most of my life. Now, my school is only 1.5 hours away and I know it's not that far. I can visit on the weekends if I want. I'm not nervous or scared, I just feel weird.

Anyways, how do you guys deal with homesickness once it hits?",4,1,397.7581763819301,college
I’m moving in to my dorm in a couple weeks. Are there any cool pranks you guys have in mind for me to pull off throughout the year?,,11,1,438.01785230785606,college
Family Dilemma,"***Friday, July 27, 2018 @ 10PM***

Hey there, to whomever may read this.

My name is Joshua, I was born and raised in Orange County, California and attended high school there, and I'm going into my junior year (second year) in college at San Francisco State University. I'm currently double majoring in both Political Science and Environmental Studies (concentrating in the Urban Environment). I'm also currently in a very difficult dilemma and I would love some other peoples' thoughts on the matter.

As a first year college student in the Fall of 2017, I was excited, nervous, and very intrigued on beginning my college career, and how it would begin. However, throughout the year, I discovered that it was overwhelming and more then I thought I could handle, but I was still having the time of my life. Never had I had so much freedom, so many choices, and so many opportunities to be able to do whatever I wanted.

During my first year in college, I've met my first boyfriend (and we're 10 months strong and counting), I interned for a mayoral campaign for the 2018 Mayoral Special Election for San Francisco (Mark Leno), I began the footwork on re-establishing the SFSU College Democrats since it had become inactive, I met many new people and gained new friendships in classes and extracurricular activities, I've applied (and sadly failed) for multiple positions and jobs throughout the SF area, I participated in resident student government to make living in the dorms a bit more fun, and done much more.

The problem with doing all of those things, is that I slacked on my college work and my grades slipped to being B's and C's, which was drastically different from my streak of A's and B's throughout my high school career. I know that they were slipping and I didn't like that they were, but I was having so much fun from doing those other things, that I thought that it was worth it, and it was necessary to involve myself in those things in order to get that 'full college experience'.

**Enter Mom.**

Throughout my life, my mom has always been the one who has pushed me to do better and move forward. As a single parent, it was necessary for her to know that her sons could support themselves and have the ability to be independent men when they grew up. Because of her actions, it was pushed me to become the determined, independent, and strong-willed person that I am today. I have strong beliefs, opinions, and I am feisty when I need to be to stand my ground. 

However, on that same note, my mom can be harsh when it comes to the reality that I don't meet her expectations, or when I fall behind on my grades. So, growing up, I was also afraid of that possibility of not meeting her expectations or what she wanted for me. At the same time, I knew that she only pushed me so hard because she wanted me to be able to take care of myself later on down the road.

**Enter Today.**

Today is a day that I will not forget. It started by my mom asking for my grades for the Spring 2018 semester, which I had failed to send to her in the past. I instantly knew that it wouldn't end well because I knew that she wasn't going to like what she saw, which was a 2.4 GPA, as well as a 3.3 GPA for summer school. She read them and asked me to come downstairs to talk about it, which completely filled my entire body with anxiety and regret for my lack of having acceptable grades.

It began as she was saying that I let her down and that she doesn't believe that this is my best work, and that's 100% true and I accept that completely. She also mentioned that maybe I had set myself a new path and created new priorities that weren't getting an education, as well as the fact that me not getting good grades after I said I would, was a slap to her face and a ""fuck you"", all of which I couldn't disagree more with.

Moving to college was truly an insane experience, both exciting and incredibly difficult. The workload is much heavier, the expected responsibility is much more than high school, and your work habits must be impeccable if you want good grades in your courses. This was also a massive culture shock and shift from home. From living in a chill bedroom community, where most people are Caucasian and conservative, to a massive and flashy metropolis, where people are all different colors and have crazy ideas and open minds. It was an amazing shift, but difficult nonetheless.

Dealing with this, as well as the fact that I didn't know anyone in San Francisco, was very mind-boggling and difficult to deal with as a new college student, as I imagine it is for everyone else. I would also say that my mom doesn't really know what it's like, since she went to school just a few miles from her parent's home, and she doesn't understand that shock.

What she mentioned next, is what truly broke my soul and heart, and that although she said we could talk about it with my dad and my brother, that she wants me to come back home after the Fall 2018 semester at SFSU, leaving not only my boyfriend of almost a year behind, but also all of the friendships I've created, the clubs that I want to return to and create, the experience that I've gained from college, and the knowledge and familiarity that I've obtained from both SF state and the city of San Francisco. She mentioned the possibility of me going to colleges near home, because she doesn't want to pay for me to get mediocre grades for $25,000 a year in San Francisco, when I can do it for $7,000 at home. But I went to San Francisco for the reason that I wanted to get out of this place and experience the world in a different part of California.

Just thinking about leaving behind my boyfriend, broke me and I just couldn't keep back the tears and sobs. It destroyed part of me thinking about having to sit at home, knowing that my boyfriend is 400+ miles away from me, and there was nothing that I could do about it, potentially causing the end of our amazing relationship. I cried a lot today, more than I have for a really long time, because I know that what I want to do, is exactly what I'm doing in San Francisco and at San Francisco State University, and to think that I can lose it all because of a few just average grade transcripts, just made me feel the shittiest and hopeless I've felt in a long time.

**Enter Reddit.**

I didn't know what to do after this happened, so I just decided that I would write this and see if anyone has any advice or feedback about the situation that I'm in. I'm just sitting in my bedroom, feeling numb and listening to music, and I don't know what to do. My dad and brother are coming over on Sunday and we're going to have a family discussion on what my mom thinks I should do, which I think is better because then everyone has a say in what they think, but I'm still terrified at the possibility of next semester being the last semester at SFSU.

Anywho, thank you if you read all of this to the end, and thanks even more to those who reply.

My Best,

Joshua.",5,0,446.7705374930413,college
How to make teacher understand that student of the month is a really bad idea?,"The last time I had a student of the month award, I was at primary school. Then there were no more such award, thanks to sound adults for that. Then arrived college which is in a whole other location that I had my lower education at. A different location with different teachers and different thinking. Yet students here are adults now or they will be way before the end of the program. This wasn't a problem until a teacher and another student ganged up on me saying I should be student of the month. I cringed and uneasily diverted the conversation. By the way, this award is concretized by having your picture and your name on the awards wall which you see when walking through the main entrance.

There's no way I'm gonna let myself be patronized like that, but I don't want to make things worst as I've seen things go south really quickly before. That teacher is not especially friendly. In my 3 months here, I've seen badly motivated students told to get the fuck out and come back when they get their motivation back by this same teacher. I feel like I'm walking on a minefield.

I'm not gonna talk to other teachers about it like a fucking child to his mother. I am going to confront this teacher, but I want to do it properly. Help me please. What is the right way to do?",8,1,474.87624351155984,college
"Embarrassed by the college I go to, should I drop out?","So I initially went to a state flagship after transferring from a CC with a 4.0 GPA and dropped out in the middle of the semester due to depression and a stressful part time job. After some recovery, I decided to enroll at a private school near my home, I got some scholarships and total cost went down to 16k, which is still expensive. But, the thought of going back to a state school with big lecture halls made it seem worthwhile at the time.

Now that I finished the semester with all A's, I feel like my school is just a scam. It is not even ranked, it has an acceptance rate over 60%, and no decent athletic centers. Some classes we just sat and did nothing or made videos in a writing class. Even many people in the state don't know about this school or look down on me when I say I go there (what I feel). 

Also, because I commute and my school does not have any clubs/activities since half of the people in this school are freshman (1 in 3 transfers out), I do not have friends.

I am a second year junior and not sure what to do, I do not want my a degree from this school, but I feel like I already transferred a lot and it will look bad when I apply to grad school. On the other hand, I am really unhappy and embarrassed to go here.

Please help.
",1,1,476.9340328634117,college
Majors that require more hard work than innate intelligence?, I am a hard worker but my intelligence level is only a little higher than average...What would you say are majors that tend to require better work ethic than pure brains? ,9,0,483.8527828634117,college
scared to go to college,"okay so I am fresh off the grill from high school (im talking i got my diploma a week ago). Up till graduation, i hadn't planned on going to college because i didn't know what i wanted at all and just didn't feel like paying thousands for an education i wasn't invested in. but this past week, i have been thinking more and more and i kinda want to go to university now?? i don't know what exactly changed my mind; maybe pressure from friends/teachers/family at graduation, but i developed a desire to go. i took concurrent enrollment my senior year through a local university so applying was super simple since i was already technically a student. i said i wanted to study botany lol. i always been a nature hoe tbh.  
anyways, i graduated hs with a 3.711 gpa and 9 college credits. i applied myself and actually tried my freshman/sophomore years, but the last 2 years, i got so lazy and would ditch classes so much and got quite a few c's. i just don't have good study habits so if i do go to college, imma have to work on redesigning my whole attitude and thought processes toward school.
i would really love to get a bachelors in botany. i know college don't guarantee employment (which it should cuz it cost shitloads) but even if i worked at a botanical garden or at a museum that'd work for me. 
in order to get this degree I'd have to take college chemistry I and II, organic chemistry I and II, college physics I and II, college bio I and II, and then a ton of other difficult sounding courses lol. i did pretty good with biology my freshman yr but i dropped college prep chemistry after one semester cuz the teacher never taught and i'd fail if i stayed and never took physics so im kinda scared.
i don't wanna waste all my time getting financial aid and buying books to find out after 2 weeks that im out of my depths and should drop out before i lose even more time and money.
have any of u guys taken physics/chemistry (basic and upper division) in college and if so, how difficult did u find it? i know we all have different skills and some things come easier than others, but i don't have anyone to talk to about this so im kinda desperate haha. 
im also nervous about being on campus and finding my classes and such. i have social anxiety so i tend to keep to myself and hate asking for help. how is college life like? ill just be living at home with my parents to save money so i won't have to live in a dorm or nothing (thank god). but i don't wanna look like an idiot if im wandering around aimlessly tryin find my classes. 
college sounds really overwhelming to me!!! in my head, it sounds like it'll go perfectly but then i imagine myself actually doing it and i come up with a million scenarios of where i fail all my classes, get criticized/made fun of by professors, get lost on campus, never make any friends, etc etc etc... 
i overthink too much but yeh anyways i would just love and appreciate to hear y'alls experience with going to college.",4,0,506.792053696745,college
How HARD is it to transfer from a T50 to T10 school? or T20?,,17,0,524.2991370300783,college
Is it common to enjoy writing your thesis?,"I'm not posting this to be some special snowflake or be like ""OMG GUYS IM SUCH A NERD"", but on some real shit, I'm enjoying writing my thesis right now. I picked a topic that I've had a vested interest in since I was a little kid, and the research sucked, but writing it is dope. I actually have to stop myself from writing it sometimes to take care of other shit. Anyone have a similar experience? ",4,0,554.2480374930412,college
Why does almost every science field require math?,"I can understand things like statistics having some use, but is there really a need for most people to use stuff like algebra, trig, and calc? Just because you CAN use it doesn't mean it's required...does it? For example, I know a few meteorologists who don't use any math in their forecasting. So what's the point in spending 4 years studying seemingly irrelevant math for a science career? Am I just that uninformed? Is it merely to impress your employers?",12,0,566.8345421226709,college
I lied about my age to college friends and now I have to tell the truth and I don't know what to do,"Basically everyone I know thinks I'm 18 but I'm actually 20. The reason why I lied is because the obvious follow up question to this statement is why are you a 20 year old college freshman? The reason is personal. The truth is I had to repeat the last two years of high school. It was a mixture of depression, laziness and anxiety that later ended with me attempting suicide. I really do not want to share this information and I really wanted college to be a fresh start and I could just fit in, rather than being the 'oldest one in class' (which is what I was in high school). 
She does know that I was slightly depressed in high school but does not know how bad it was.
I know the fact that I lied is not good for our friendship, but the good thing is that my friend has told me secrets of hers (which are not as bad). I just don't know what to do.
I have to tell her because we signed up to be roommates next year and she will see my age in the form, in the same way I can see hers and there is no way to hide it.
I really need advice.

(EDIT: I know its not good to cover up one lie with more lies, but since I'm an international student I was thinking of confessing to doing a certificate programme in my home country before starting. This is partly true except it was for one year and not two).",13,1,575.8324703634116,college
How screwed am I being placed in college algebra?,"Took my local CC placement tests, got placed in college algebra. There’s no kind way of saying this, so I’ll just put it out there. Am I going to be placed with a bunch of morons? (Granted I myself am one) Do most people make Calculus, and I’m in the minority, or am I completely in the wrong? Also, is this going to drastically increase my time here, granted most of the 6 TAG UC’s require at least Calculus II, which to my understanding leaves me with of course Algebra, as well as Trig, Pre-cal, and the two courses of Calculus.",10,2,582.1269842523005,college
How do you guys manage to sleep less?,"As finals are coming, and i sleep around 8 hours a day, i really want to reduce sleeping a bit to maybe 5-6 hours a day. ",17,3,585.1254680485969,college
What colleges accept a 1.38 GPA?,"What colleges accept low GPA's, also whats the best benefits they give? Whats the best major they offer?",10,0,587.0222851782264,college
Asking a professor for a “retake?”,"So posted about my situation in r/ADHD, but there are new developments. Basically, I think I tanked my math test yesterday, which will probably prevent me from maintaining my 4.0 GPA (which I’ve had since hs...god I’d hate to see it go). 

This math class has 5 grades: 4 exams and 1 final. The exams are each worth 18% and the final is worth 28%. But the exams vary in points; my first one was out of 28 points, and my second one was out of 36 points. 

The review and the actual exam were completely different. I and a lot of other classmates couldn’t even finish the test (7 problems). He curves the tests, but we haven’t received the grades back yet, so we don’t know what we really have. On the last exam, someone actually made a 100% so he didn’t curve. 

One of my classmates mentioned that we should ask for a retake? Apparently he doesn’t drop any of the exams to replace with the final, but the classmate said maybe we could just retake it. Our professor is...odd, for lack of a better word. Assigns hw (which we all do) but doesn’t pick it up or grade it. Is only in his office 1 hour a day on the days he’s even there. I’ve looked over the syllabus and it doesn’t say whether he replaces grades with the final or whether he offers retakes. He’s supposed to be primarily a researcher, but for some reason he’s teaching now. So I’m a bit nervous about approaching him about this. 

Is it worth a shot? Has anyone had experience asking for a “retake?” ",17,0,587.1793685115598,college
Don't Want a Robot to Replace You? Study Tolstoy.,,1,2,589.0522273078561,college
Can someone answer my questions about college ... im very confused and scared,"Warning : this is going to be long 

Ok my first worry is this : 

I have severe social anxiety that i need to work through and i just found a program i am eligible to go to ( after two years of being rejected for programs ) so that means even before i can get to college i have to do this program and start going to therapy ( ive been before but it didnt work out too well so im trying again ) . And in addition to the program , i'll probably get a part time job ( with the help of the program) so i will be earning money i guess . What im worried about is if i'll be too old for college when im done with it ... because i dont even know how old i'll be when im finished with the program ... im 19 now ... i want to go to college to study art ( fine arts and graphic design ) because i want to be an animator ... which is going to lead me into my second worry . 

My second worry : i am super super bad at art and drawing . And while its always been in my mind that i wanted to do something artistic as a career . I was never like super invested in it but i did draw but only things like cartoon characters that already existed . In highschool and middle school i never took my art classes very seriously because i was underestimated the importance of learning to draw anything but cartoons . So now that i want to draw in a more anime or manga style its really hard because i know nothing of how to do it because the bodies and faces are so much more complex than american cartoons . Which leads me to get discouraged and depressed  and not practice as much as i should because i feel like a failure . When i do draw i try to learn from the first edition book of mastering manga by mark crilley and while its been a little helpful , it doesnt really do much for me but i saw a little bit more of sucess using books by christopher hart but then people say he is a fraud so i dont even know . I think im going to order a book on drawing the human figure so i can practice doing that and a few more christopher hart books and the book pop manga by Camilla derrico . Im just worried about getting discouraged again .Anyway that will lead into my third worry . 


My third worry : i want to go to a community college at first just to get a feel for it ... and what its like . I want to take a fine arts course( to learn those basic skills i am so severely lacking )  , a graphic design course and a psychology course ( in case this whole art thing falls to pieces on me like im so worried it will ) then i want to go to an actual four year college ... except probably for eight years . There i want to take another fine arts course ( yet again to make sure i know how to draw ) and an animation course , and a psychology course ( still planning for the chance this all goes to hell ) then after all that ... i want to take the second part of all those ( fine arts 2 ... etc ) just to make sure i really really know what im doing ... but all that will take 10 years . Because community college is two years . And if i go to four year college twice , thats eight years . Is that too long ? What if im ancient by the time i get out of there ? And how will i earn money while im college ?!? And more importantly even after doing all that will my art skills even improve at all ? Will i end up homeless , poor , and jobless even after all that education ? Im so scared !!! 

Anyways i want to end up being an animator /storyboard artist and maybe make my own manga influenced books . It's alot but i feel like its the only thing ive ever really be interested in . Everything just seems so ... dull and boring .Please help . And any tips you have on not getting discouraged would be really nice . And please just be honest but not in a harsh way like "" your trash and always going to be trash"" 
 becauss i already say that to myself enough really ... anyways if you read all this thank you so much .",6,1,598.5932921226708,college
#MeToo movement on college campuses: Can professors and students have consensual sexual relationships considering the power a teacher holds?,,10,3,601.307991196745,college
How do I email my professor about anxiety / being excused from speeches?,,14,1,613.0648083263746,college
***Easiest major that leads to an actual job***,"I'm going to be doing ROTC and need a major that isnt too difficult, so that it wont interfere with my ROTC studies. I'm terrible at history and not great at math but still like it.. I hate biology and know nothing about science. 

I know nothing about majors. I will likely have to do a year or two in a community college before I even start my 4 yr bachelor degree.

Is crimminology an easy major? Im guessing that major would lead to some sort of job as a police officer? Which is a real job with openings.

So yeah im looking to get a degree that will help me get a job but isnt too difficult because I will be doing ROTC which is like a 4 year class and has a lot of information I need to learn. 

PS-Im open to most jobs, so any easy majors with real life jobs are ok to mention (i.e. no womens studies majors as I cant see that getting me a job... any majors to do with teaching I do not want)
Thanks",39,1,621.1992759189671,college
Have you guys ever noticed advisors being more rude as your GPA decreases?,"When I applied for the business program, I had an associates with a 3.93. The advisor was super enthusiastic and very much ready to help me.

Fast forward a year or two into my major and I'm at a 3.63 cumal, 3.23 major. The advisor seems so annoyed when she talks with me. She almost treats me as if I'm not competent and that helping me is such a hassle. I'm not a stupid student, and my GPA dropped because I just took care of a lot of heavy hitters like all of stats, bus. Calc, and the like.

Have you guys ever noticed this? I hope to get my GPA up over the next year. I wonder if they'll treat me differently again?",45,1,648.7209194374857,college
"Failed ""Engineering Stat"" for the second time...what do I do now? :'(","Hey there everyone. So, the title is pretty self explanatory. What should I do? I want to petition my grade and show my Dean why I deserve at least a C- in the class. I was depressed and I wasn't doing well in school. I was on the verge of dropping out because things got too hard. But I need to pass this class or else my last three semesters might turn into 5 or 7.  I know statistics pretty well, I've taken AP stat in high school and got a 5/5 on the AP test. I'm hoping this will be grounds for my petition. ",5,0,658.1557689745227,college
Will I finally be worth something if I start doing sports?,"Like, I do a Capella, but apparently that makes me a nerd lower than shit, I did rowing, but can't make myself get up at 4 am every single day anymore, and I'm in a frat, but it's coed and not social. I'm worth literally nothing. The only quality I have that makes me somewhat normal is that I'm a stoner. Should I try doing athletics and actually become something of value?",6,0,689.7217180485968,college
C-,"Hey guys. I just got my midterms back, and I scored a whopping C-. It's 25% of the final grade. What's the verdict? Any way I can bounce back from this? ",7,0,700.503789807856,college
Me Everyday In College,,0,0,702.3324356411894,college
Why does college education not have the same level of scrutiny as other services we receive? Why do we not expect better?,"Such as professors that dont give a shit about teaching, just research. But because of his or her tenure and the money he or she brings in, it's allowed. ",6,1,702.5684194374857,college
How do I appeal a scholarship?,"I am a freshman reaching the end of my fall semester. I am attending this school on a scholarship, which pays $15,000 a year. The requirements to keep this scholarship is to have a 3.0 GPA by the end of the semester and take have 15 hours a week.

I meet the second criteria, however the first has become much more difficult.

During the school year I had suffered several issues that impacted my schoolwork. I had a concussion, severe withdrawal from a medication (benzo withdrawal), the flu, severe anxiety (and, at times, depression). a car accident that caused significant back injury, and most recently I had been disowned by my mother and now cannot return home.

These issues have caused me to miss classes and to fail to turn in assignments. However, I am passing all of my classes except for one--one that is known to be a very difficult course. 
I can prove each of these events happening, except for my mother disowning me, with medical documents, letters, and emails.

I have worked with the teacher in the class I am failing, attending her office hours very early once problems started to arise. We continue to work together to find the best option for me.
There is little chance I can bring my grade in that class from an F to at least a C. Of course, I am still trying my hardest.

I am at risk of losing my scholarship, and I would like to prevent that from happening if possible. I do have a chance to appeal the scholarship. Essentially, I want the one failed grade to be ""forgiven"", and to continue school the next semester with the scholarship (as well as retaking the failed course).

If I lose this scholarship, I can no longer afford to go to this school and would have to drop out. Because I cannot return home, I have nowhere else to go and I am afraid of becoming homeless or struggling so much financially at such a young age (18).

Are there any tips or advice you could provide me? It would be greatly appreciated.",4,1,704.3421347152635,college
"Men who were/are popular in college, what did you do in your first month to get known and in the large social groups?",,0,0,709.9227249930414,college
What do people who don't party do on Halloween?,I'm trying to decide whether to buy a costume or not. I don't party,7,1,721.7360236041524,college
"Just for fun, how do you get into an ivy league college? What's ""qualified"" mean to them?","For example, places like Harvard, Yale, Mit. 

You obviously need a strong academic record, high scores, good rec letters, etc.

But assuming you have ALL that, what else makes a difference?

Besides intangibles like your last name, who your parents are, what highschool you went to, etc.

Is it:

1. your essay

2. your extra curricular activities

And if so, what extra curricular activities are they looking for? what does an accomplished candidate mean to them?",16,2,725.6922157337821,college
Is it a good idea to drop out of a University to attend a Community College and transfer later?,"Currently spending my first couple of nights in my dorm, and I am absolutely miserable. I cry myself to sleep. The littlest things I notice around campus or think to myself makes me tear up. It’s just a hot mess for me. For my whole life, I’ve always had people do chores and clean up my messes (not my fault, my grandma insists on doing them), and now finally on my own, and I just can not seem to enjoy this new environment away from the comfort of home. 

So I was wondering if this was a smart move: drop out of college and attend a local community college for 2 years and transfer.

I would only be losing a couple hundred dollars from fees and foods. But technically also saving thousands from tuition. I know I sound like a humiliating loser but I honestly can not enjoy life in this environment. ",3,0,751.6080374930413,college
I want to write a resume. What should I include?,"-Undergraduate Student
-Format?
",3,0,757.6909425856338,college
How likable would I be in college?,"Its kind of a random question but anyway I'm about to become a freshman but I've heard college is different than highschool

plus you don't know people until you get there and meet them in face so the social experience will be much more unexpectedly hard for me in my opinion since I'm a not very social person

I hate talking much in a conversion

I dislike sports 

I hate rock and pop music mostly

I am conservative but open-to-discussion

I'm not into party or anything that is populous 

I enjoy watching anime & cartoon

I love swimming 

I like 8 bit music and retro games

I have OCD and cleaning fetish

I'm sexually indifferent

I rarely watch news and is against-the-current

I am ignorant toward politics and stuff (don't care about patriotism ETC)

I hate cooperating with pp but love doing volunteers

How would my peers perceive me as a person individually? ",13,0,807.1526439745228,college
Undergrad college decision,"Hey everyone, currently I am confused between whether I should attend a top notch college (UC Berkeley) 60k a year or a mediocre college (Michigan State University) that will be around 20k a year after scholarships. I plan on doing engineering/business which UC Berkeley is highly esteemed for, and to hopefully go to an amazing grad school for MBA. Any input? ",13,1,866.78536388193,college
Socioeconomic Inequalities in College,"*This is a repost because my last one seemed to have disappeared.* 


**Before I begin this post, I just want to state that I understand life isn't fair. I also know that many inequalities exist. Of course this isn't one of the biggest (and it may not affect everyone), but it still exists, and I just wanted to get it off my chest.**


*[Begin rant]* 


I'm annoyed by the socioeconomic inequalities that influence student life in university, particularly at so-called ""elite"" liberal arts and Ivy League schools. I'm a scholarship student at one of these schools. I go to class, I take notes, I study hard because I see college as a means to a better life one I graduate.


I feel jealous of students who go on vacations with their friends several times a year (which are probably funded by their parents' money because they can't earn that much money working a part time job in college, if they even work at all).


These are the people who use social media to show off their cool, cultured lives, who are obsessed with travel and good food, and who spend money on luxury items.


I once saw a girl shop online during class. She was shopping at some name brand store where there was a sale, but the sale prices were still over a hundred dollars.


A lot of these students come from privileged backgrounds and attended private high schools. Sure, they may work hard academically, but their lives are still pretty easy in comparison. And if they do face a struggle, they can take a semester off if they face a mental health problem (not intending to put down mental health, just saying how some have the means to deal with it easier than others).


I know it's not their fault for having more privlidge, I'm just annoyed by how they act about it.


I have privlidge being an educated person from a middle class family. However, I'm not caught up in my own world, ignoring the realities other people face. I see people like my friends trying to balance three part time jobs in school, while others have bad home lives, or face racial injustices, etc. Everyone faces difficulties, but we can use what we have to learn, improve, and help others along the way.


It's easy to feel alone or isolated in college if you're different from your peers. Can anyone else relate?


*[End rant]*


NOTE: My intent wasn't to criticize wealthy students. I just wanted to begin a discussion about the sociological inequalities that exist between students who come from wealthy backgrounds and those who do not. See comments for link to NYT article relating to the subject.",10,2,923.253315270819,college
What types of colleges offer Quantum Physics?,"I'm a real nerd for all physics really, but especially Quantum Physics. I live in Massachusetts. What type of colleges around here offer Quantum Physics? I'm not really an ivy league type of student, but I have an appreciation for the sciences. 
Edit: I see that most colleges have classes in it, but what id I'm looking to major in it?


",6,1,946.1107921226709,college
How's it gonna be after I drop from my sorority?,"So I'm pledging rn and I'm gonna drop next week because this is rly not my thing. Do you guys think I should do it face to face, by phone, or email? Also, are we suppose to become strangers or we can still be friends after that?? are they gonna unfriend me on fb or unfollow me on insta?? Sooo awkward... ",11,1,995.1988708263747,college
Quick tip when writing essays (please read),"Type it in Google drive so that it's automatically saved. A random kid was in the computer lab doing a 12 page essay for his intersession class and the computer went into update mode and he lost 11 pages and it is due the next day at 10am. 

Also don't procrastinate (I do it all the time btw, shitty at time management). I'm terrible at consoling a person and we were the only 2 ppl in there. Hope we can all learn from this poor kid let's call him Johnny.",7,0,1005.7560699004488,college
Does Community College Suck ?,"After graduating from high school there were a lot of people I knew , who began to attend community colleges. I personally didn't like the selection of the community colleges nearby , and fortunately there happened to be a private  four year college that was about 15 minutes away from where I live. 


I've been loving my campus and the whole college experience, however upon following up a little later with these same people who went to community colleges they dont seem as thrilled.  

I even had one girl tell me that she didn't like that college and literally just  stopped going. 

So I guess I'm wondering why that is. Do community colleges lack the resources needed to have a full college experience? Does the environment of a community college differ from that of a four-year college to a point  where it makes students feel as though they are in the 13th grade? 

I don't know but this is a trend that I'm seeing for some reason. ",10,0,1012.418940270819,college
Two Associates Degrees?!?!?!,Why do people do this? I have a friend (a not so smart friend) who is getting two Associates degrees. I am at a four-year and I do not see any possible benefit to getting two AA (or AS) degrees. Can anyone enlighten me to **any** possible benefit?,8,0,1016.2523314745226,college
Kansas State University student drops out after getting 4.0 GPA and gives his reason why.,,8,0,1031.1473199004488,college
What colleges offer the best degree programs in bio-medical engineering? I want to become a neuro-physicist.,"Hello, my name is Aaron and I'm a 25 y/o male with a high-school degree and some college experience. I live in Ohio, but have no problem moving to get a better education at foreign institutions. I attended a community college for computer coding, but dropped out after some time.
I would like to go back to school this year and begin fresh, with the goal of becoming a neuro-physicist, a lifelong brain surgeon, someone who monitors the mind-body experience and (eventually) someone who creates brain implants to cure diseases.

What are some great medical and engineering schools I can look into? specifically, what schools offer a degree path that is most in line with what I want to do?

Also, what possible set of degrees should I include? I considered going for a dual Physics/Mathematics BS at Wright State University, along with a degree in Chemistry and a major in Bio-medical Engineering. 

TL;DR
Thank you, and lets discuss with enthusiasm",10,0,1343.8629101782265,college
A recent BYU grad recounts his college experience... and is rewarded with an r/byu shadowban,,53,27,1523.4842990671152,college
"[Serious] If you are concerned about your future opportunities and the fate of our nation, take a political science course.",I encourage everyone on both sides of the aisle to take an intro political science course and learn how our government works. Many of you will be able to vote for the first time. Please do so and learn about who you are voting for. Don't let our way of life die in vain. ,14,10,439.2605143448931,college
Finally cleaned my desk and organized my office space. I can now put up more Jeep’s for my motivation to rock thru school.,,1,39,581.029715733782,college
Obnoxious Philosophy Major,,1,0,2411.9605953634114,college
Why don't you pay for college? I'll tell you why!,,2,14,2304.3666023078563,college
TIL: Princeton Restricted the amount of A’s students could get based on a myth,"Today I learned that Princeton, a place where really smart people are supposed to be instituted a grade deflation policy only to find out later that grade inflation was a myth.",14,5,448.1323199004487,college
"I couldn't help but laugh when just a moment ago, the kid next to me wearing a Christian cross necklace and a t-shirt about God let out a heavy sigh and rolled his eyes when our Bio professor said we'd be covering evolution to end the semester",,10,5,685.4239749930413,college
Roommate Possible Drinking Issue,"I'm a freshman who moved in on Friday. Tonight my roommate came in, tried to go to sleep, then fell off the bed twice and vomited all over it. Thankfully he seems to be sleeping normally, but I'm pretty sure that alcohol was involved (he told me he drinks and had no apparent health issues earlier). I'm concerned about this behavior, as we're both underage and I really don't want to get into any trouble over this. I figure I should probably tell the RA and try to get a room change, but I'm not entirely sure if that will work given that I have no proof that alcohol was involved. I don't think I'm overreacting, so how should I talk to the RA about this?",33,3,1137.8173777708191,college
Enough with the condescending answers to advice threads on here,"I keep seeing this over and over in this sub, people who give condescending answers back to advice posts, usually only like a sentence long. [Here](http://np.reddit.com/r/college/comments/2k04jm/i_dropped_out_for_the_semester_afraid_to_tell_my/clgpe73), [here](http://np.reddit.com/r/college/comments/2k1qe1/im_one_absence_away_from_failing_a_class/clh40vm), [here](http://np.reddit.com/r/college/comments/2imasb/very_easy_professor_vs_friday_off/cl3z1zc), and I am sure there are many more examples...  

It is not really helpful at all, if you can't give advice without putting someone down and making them feel like they ""have it too easy"" or ""too stupid"" or whatever...then don't give advice at all. Maybe it doesn't seem like a very big problem to you or seems obvious to you, but it may not to others or others just want a second opinion.  

I like asking/answering advice posts, but this sub just has an overwhelming amount of this condescending answers.   

Lets stop this.",16,5,1820.883338418967,college
Anyone bored in class?,I really hate movies in morning classes. I need coffee  :/,6,0,2068.3451324004486,college
"I have this 6 page paper due on Wednesday, and I only have 1 page done... ",Procrastination always wins the battles. ,16,5,2395.732389344893,college
Made it through day one of classes!,,6,10,1135.8857574004487,college
how to find parties,"will start fresh year, how do I find the best parties",26,9,1559.892053696745,college
Professors trying to make money off students.. I don't think so!,,11,23,2243.303141659708,college
No one should be 90k in debt when graduating college,"Just watched a CNBC piece called “Why college is so expensive in America”. One person said they were 90k in debt when graduating and I find that completely absurd. I will take the unpopular opinion and say that is her fault and not the fault of the education system. Before going to college, she knew where she would be when she graduated, broke and 90k to pay back. Since she owes so much, I would assume that she is going to some prestigious private school. A school she didn’t get a full ride or likely a scholarship to, but went there because it was her dream school. So I guess what I am saying is that she should have gone somewhere cheaper, and she should not be blaming the education system when from the beginning she knew it would cost an arm and a leg. 


I guess I’m just sick of people complaining about the price of college and how they are 90k in debt. It was their choice to go somewhere expensive and likely without a scholarship. Although college probably is too expensive, I think people should choose somewhere they can reasonably afford and not complain about being 90k in debt because they just HAD to go to their dream school. ",32,7,253.02366249304126,college
I’m giving my students their midterm exam and put some rules on the board,"1) read and follow the instructions carefully otherwise you may have a bad time

2) don’t cheat
(A) if you do cheat, copy off someone smarter than you 
(B) don’t get caught

3) if you do get caught cheating suck it up and don’t make a scene

4) if I see or hear a cell phone I will assume you are cheating.  Refer to #3",14,7,688.3990212893375,college
Saw this taped to the wall in my cousin's dorm room,,19,7,688.8197504560042,college
Can I get honest feedback from my peers?,"Hi r/college,

My name is Zach, I am an undergrad sophomore looking for some feedback on an app I am starting to develop...

[HotSpot](http://www.hotspotapp.io/) is an invite-only party discovery tool that shares real time information about parties and bars on college campuses. HotSpot shows users what parties have the most beer left, no cover fee, and the best looking guys and girls. HotSpot shares information that is vital to you making the right decision on where to go on a Saturday night.

I would greatly appreciate the feedback and opinions of my peers... I have shared this idea with my friends and gotten a positive response, yet I think there is benefit in getting honest feedback from others.",20,7,1643.3624819374857,college
I don't think A's and A-'s should be different,The reason is assuming your school does not also add incentives to be above a 95%. I don't believe you can penalize the lower tier of a grade while not compensating for a higher tier of a grade. I understand not going above 4.0 but that's an easy fix it can just be set up that anything above a 96% is a 4.25 in that class for gpa but in overall and quarter/semester gpa it wont go above 4.0 so the high A's will compensate for any low A's,18,7,2080.178593048597,college
Time to start practice ! MOUNTAIN WEST,,2,7,2322.934704159708,college
Why?,Why do y’all like Chick Fil La (if you live in the south) and Subway?,18,4,2.919403233782009,college
This might be a dumb question but is it unusual for someone to go to their first party during sophomore year?,"I know it’s acceptable. I’m not asking if it’s ok, I’m just wondering just how not-normal it is.",24,3,80.43942638193016,college
Here’s how I aced multiple choice based tests in College,"Multiple based tests are my saviors on college exams. When I hear the exam is of this type, I always sit in between known dumb kids in the class. Why? Every time there’s a four letter choice multiple question, I choose one. Say for example I chose A. I then check the answer of the one sitting on my left. If I see it’s B, then I know his answer is wrong, why? because he’s dumb AF. I then look at the one in my right and say for example he’s answer is C, I know it’s wrong because he too is dumb AF. That leaves me A or D. Then I know the correct answer is D because guess what, I am as dumb AF. 

Score: 100/100. True story.",2,0,85.7991833263746,college
Hall style dorms clearly superior to suite style?,"Here’s my question—why do some colleges go all-in on suite style dorms? In nearly every aspect, hall style dorms are better for freshman living. Suites are far more socially restrictive; a suite door is an extra barrier to interaction among people who live on the same floor. Social life in hall style dorms is far more vibrant because the living space is more open and welcoming, whereas suites are much more insulated. I understand that some people appreciate the added privacy and bathroom proximity, but it seems as if suite-style freshman living breeds a far more cliquey, antisocial community. Thoughts?",12,4,360.30745878933755,college
To freshmen entering college....,"Please know your rights.

  There is a high probability in college years that you or some friends can  do some questionable illegal stuff, there's no avoiding it; we are all human. Police make sooo much money off drinking tickets etc. 

Chances are you may have interactions with law enforcement. 

   You always have the right to remain silent most importantly! 


Be smart. Police are not your friends. 

That is all, 




Edit: to all the haters... in America you are innocent until proven guilty! ",13,0,478.4207226782264,college
"College gen eds are a bull shit waste of time, money and energy... Change my mind.",,40,4,546.7917759189671,college
Dating in college compared to high school.,"I am a high school girl (senior) who will be going to college (a larger than medium university) next year and living in a dorm. It is a rather selective state university, not affiliated with any religion.

I have heard many tales about college life and dating, many of which are, I assume, not at all true. But some may be true. As far as dating is concerned, is it possible to date guys, even have a boyfriend or relationship, without having sex?

I go on some dates (not that many) in high school. I don't mind making out (actually, I enjoy it) but from the neck up only. Most guys don't mind that I don't go further than kissing (passionate kissing). A few have wandering hands but will behave themselves when I say NO. I like dates and making out, but I do not want sex yet.

This is not for religious reasons, just my personal preference.

How is it in college? Are girls expected to have sex if they go on dates? Should I plan to just stay in my room if I don't want that? Or can I continue to have dates, some making out, but no sex?",10,4,554.083002770819,college
I don't wanna be mean here but...,"Why does it seem like everyone on this subreddit has anxiety? I've been browsing this subreddit for a couple months now, and most of the threads I've seen consist of people asking dumb questions and overthinking everything.",7,5,617.3142643448931,college
"Lesbians, how hard was it to meet/hookup with other gay girls?","I'm a lesbian (more on the butch side so I'm highly visible) and I had a SPLENDID experience at an all girls school for a couple years in high school. I hooked up and dated many girls and it was a jolly good time. 

I'm going to a small liberal arts college on the East coast. How hard is it to meet other gay girls to possibly hookup/date?",18,2,802.2007805485969,college
Does getting above a 90 boost your GPA,"If your school uses the 4.0 scale does getting anything above an A which is a 90 help your GPA go up,
For example if I make a 100 in the class which is an A, does it add value on the 4.0
Scale or does it have the same effect an A of 90 does to the GPA ",10,4,1185.2258847152634,college
Do things like AP/Honors Classes and ACT/SAT Scores Predict College Success?,"I say they do not at all. Its about the students motivation and determination once they get into college. I've known many students who haven't taken a single AP/Honors course but have managed to do well in college. I also know someone who has taken 15 AP's but still flunked out of college after his freshman year. For the record, I did not take a single AP/Honors Class but managed to achieve a 3.6 GPA after 4 years. I also only scored a 26 on my ACT. But I think that this is only a test of whether or not you know how to take that particular test. Let me know your thoughts. ",11,5,1189.7645884189672,college
TRUMP At UIC,"Hello fellow students and alumni. I am Browsing UIC's about section and came across this as one of their missions, ""To foster scholarship and practices that reflect and respond to the increasing diversity of the U.S. in a rapidly globalizing world."". I am sure you guys have heard that a presidential candidate is hosting a rally at UIC. The presidential candidate is Sir Donald Trump. The things he preaches and rallies around are in direct conflict with UIC's missions and goals. I am against UIC hosting this rally and I am sure our ethnically diverse student body is as well. Now, signing petitions is pseudo-activism and is useless. If UIC hosts this rally and we do nothing, as tuition payers, we would be condoning racism and hatred. A more effective tactic would be to email administration heads voicing our concern and opposition to the Trump Rally. I will be fashioning an email that should be filled out by students and emailed to administration heads. Trumps messaging makes hatred and prejudice normal which hinders progress. UIC is our school and we have a say on how it is run. I hope most of you are willing to take a stance. Will post the short message shortly. Not me, Us.
 https://www.dnainfo.com/chicago/20160304/university-village/trump-coming-chicago-next-week-speaking-at-uic-pavilion",9,0,1321.1660351782264,college
Odd question: Will colleges revoke admission if I run away from home?,"I know colleges can retract their admissions if you fail courses/commit a crime, etc. But what if I ran away from home for a few days?

Let's clear things up first. I am not depressed and my parents are not abusive. I'm just really bored with my life right now and I want to do something different. There are several train tracks near my neighborhood and I was planning on hopping a freight and living on the road for a few days. 

""But what about the school that you miss. Your grades will suffer?""

Yeah, I got that covered. There's only 3 days left in the semester and I have solid grades in all of my classes. There are no tests left in any of them and I can afford to take zeroes on the remaining assignments. My school does have a policy where if you have more than 5 unexcused absences in a semester for a class, you get dropped a letter grade. But the thing is, there's only 3 days left in the semester and so this wouldn't affect me. 

I've hopped trains before, so I probably won't get hurt in the process of getting on/off the trains. If anything, I would be worried about food. But I have saved up a lot of money and I was planning on carrying plenty of food on me. I don't really know where the train goes, but I know it passes through a state where I have a close friend in. If needed, I could always have him pick me up, and I could hitch hike too. 

I will try to keep this as much of a secret from everybody as possible. I know train-hopping is illegal, but if they don't see me, how would they ever find out? Would having a string of unexcused absences from school would raise some red flags? If I do get caught freight-hopping, is it a serious enough of a crime for them to revoke their admissions? 

I'm not really sure what sub this was appropriate for. /r/legaladvice or something? ",9,0,1397.5774356411894,college
"A quarter of Harvard grads have never had sex... So who was/is a VIRGIN at the end of senior year in COLLEGE?? If so, why?",,14,0,1603.020965733782,college
"Can a teacher fail you in a course, if they never give you a failure warning in the middle of the year?",Title,25,0,1672.1428060115597,college
How can I stay awake in class?,Next semester on Tuesdays and Thursdays I have class 9:30 to 2:00 with about an hour more or less of each class with 15 min breaks in between. I'm don't plan on buying some food or drink to wake me up everyday before class. I can get enough sleep but a lot of times just being in a humid class sitting for 5 hours puts me to bed. Sometime's I don't get enough sleep with ROTC. I'm just hoping someone has anything to say? I know I'm not the first person to have classes all morning. ,66,3,1986.3635930485968,college
My experience in 6 years of University. Was it all worth it?,,4,10,2123.2250398078563,college
HS cords,,5,0,110.0016833263746,college
Why do people pull all nighters? I study during the day just fine.,,26,31,3.0363476782264534,college
How come people don’t go to a community college first and transfer?,"The cost of college is a lot cheaper that way too. You basically get the same education as you would in a university, so why are some people so obsessed with going to a uni straight out of high school?",28,10,229.28498193748572,college
My friend's sister is a sophomore in colleges wants to date much older guys. I am concerned.,"My friend and her younger sister came by this weekend and we started to talk about guys. She is a sophomore in college and said she tired of dating college guys.  She downloaded the Bumble dating app and now is getting hit on by guys who I think are way to old for her (35+ years old).  She said she is tired of college ""boys"" and wants to date a man.  Like she knows what men are all about. 

Regardless, I don't post on reddit that much, but I am concerned.  I think she should just keep on dating guys close to her age at this point in her life and enjoy the college dating experience and have fun.  I hate to think she is getting creeped on by much older guys that can manipulate her.  Are there apps for just college people that I can suggest to her?  Her only real social media are Instagram, Pinterest, and Snapchat.

I am in my mid-twenties and I have to admit, I used Tinder and Bumble before in the past.  I understand her infatuation with dating an ""older"" guy...but I think they should be closer to her age.  I've dated a few guys in college and I believe that experience is good for young women.  ",15,18,1068.1224240671154,college
Do you think college campuses are becoming too politically correct?,"Do you think colleges/student bodies are becoming too politically correct to the point that they are silencing opposing opinions (especially from the white cis-gendered heterosexual male) when it comes to things surrounding social justice?  

Example:  This weekend my alma mater's newspaper ran [this article](http://www.technicianonline.com/news/article_b0ca3f3a-79dc-11e5-8a12-eb130a093bbc.html) and the main student FB group erupted in calling the people in the photo racist and anyone who provided a logical counterargument to the article.

Do you think colleges should strive to support opinions of everyone and not just a vocal minority?",87,58,1453.343442585634,college
"My professor is always rounding up my grades, and it makes me feel uneasy because I didn't deserve it.","I have the same accounting professor as I did last semester and she has always seemed to liked me. The material in her classes are pretty tough, so I study quite a bit for her tests. I took the first quiz in her class today consisting of twenty questions. I stayed after to get my grade, and turns out I made a 95. Well, I just got home and saw that she put my grade in as a 100. I'm sure most people would think that I'm an idiot for even complaining about this, but I feel guilty that she did that. I didn't *earn* a 100, I earned a 95. 

She did this a couple of times last semester, and I felt just as bad. Sorry if this is stupid as hell. :( ",14,17,568.3691601782265,college
"Even With Affirmative Action, Blacks and Hispanics Are More Underrepresented at Top Colleges Than 35 Years Ago",,7,12,784.2215675856339,college
"I know this is a religious post, so it'll probably get downoted to oblivion. But I was thinking of going to my unveristy's morning service this Sunday...by myself. But I don't want to stick out like a sore thumb. Help?","I've been doing some soul searching and really just want to get back into the whole church community thing again. And I found that there's a Presbyterian ministry that does Sunday morning service right in my university's student center. So I thought ""Hey, that's pretty convenient. Why not give it a shot?"". But now I'm starting to doubt if I should go because I don't want to stick out like a sore thumb showing up by myself sitting next to a bunch of other families looking at me like ""Who the hell is this guy?"". ",10,14,594.7568106411894,college
Panicking over repercussions of sneaking boyfriend into dorm,"I am so sorry for posting again. Really. But I’m freaking out and I can’t find anywhere else to post 


Background: Recently the school changed the guest policy so that now they have to have an online pass which is shown in a tab on the housing portal. My mentally ill and controlling mother doesn’t trust me, and often logs into the housing site just to poke around. Now that there is a specific tab for visitors, she’s overjoyed  bc now she can catch me if I’m “up to anything”. She doesn’t know that I’m dating this person. Sneaking in became one option, while talking to my RA was the other. 

I had planned to meet with my RA yesterday but something came up and she couldn’t make it. 

I went to the movies in a diff city with my bf last night, and when we came back it was around 3. 

My bf couldn’t go back to his place due to his mother needing to sleep in his room (loooong story) so the only place we could go was my room. 

So we snuck in....

I now know that **there is a camera** facing the main doors which is where we walked in. I panicked an couldn’t stop looking at it!! There was no RA at the desk, so we just walked into the elevator hall. There was also a camera in the elevator. 

My boyfriend ended up falling asleep and leaving at like 6 am, at which point there *was an RA at the desk*. I wanted him to leave earlier so there wouldn’t be one, but sleep happened. 

**This is the part where I start to panic**

He said he came out of the elevator, looked through the glass pane in the door at the RA on desk, **she saw him, and then he quickly backed up back into the elevator hall again. He then pulled his phone out and nonchalantly walked past her and outside. He said she definitely saw him but didn’t say anything.**


Since last night was the first night that they introduced the new system, I don’t know if that means they were checking cameras more, or what... 


My boyfriend reasons that **they have no reason to believe that he *didnt* have a visitor pass. I mean, for all that morning RA knew he had been swiped in last night.** Secondly, he reasons that they have no way to know that I let him in unless they check the cameras and see us entering at 3...


How long should I wait before I stop worrying? It’s been almost 12 hours and I’ve heard nothing. I was thinking maybe they would send an email saying that I’m in trouble, etc. I haven’t gotten anything yet but I feel like I need to give them at least 72 hours... the anxiety is killing me 


I have no idea what the penalty is if I’m caught ... **but what if they fine me or EVEN WORSE— take away my ability to get housing ever again?** It’s my first offense, and I’ve never broken a damn rule in my whole time living there... 


I’m pretty terrified since the RA saw him leave, and I know they have to document anything suspicious. **What if they documented him, look through the security footage and see me and him looking at the cameras??** I’m so scared, I recognize I should not have done this. 


Don’t think I’m going to be doing that again. But it sucks since that basically means I can’t live on campus if I want to keep dating my boyfriend.


I recognize that I shouldn’t have done this. Really I do. So please hold off on reprimanding. 


Any advice or ideas? Should I be this freaked out???",16,4,627.9866833263746,college
Harvard University accepts a record number of black students,,1,6,2010.1078986041523,college
So I came home from working overnight to this in my living room...,,1,4,2139.4148199004485,college
If you're showering in the community showers... DONT PEE FOR CHRIST'S SAKE.,"Showering at my dorm in the stall closest to the drain, girl walks in to the stall next to me, starts shower, and then PEES. I could smell it so hard, so I turned off my shower and stood to the side because I was grossed out, but I realized I had conditioner still in my hair so I had to shower again. All of our stalls are connected so the water from the shower on the end goes into the stall with the drain.

TLDR: You are a sick fuck if you pee in the shower next to someone. Get help.",7,7,2170.404032863412,college
7 WAYS TO TURN YOUR DORM INTO A MANCAVE,,0,7,2245.293245826375,college
Dropouts,"Do you see dropouts as less than human or losers? Many quit because they didn't like the course they were doing, they were depressed and might've had ambitions they were denied by parents hence the reason they're there in the first place.  I'm interested in hearing some of your answers.  Could you blame them?",4,0,1103.2763592523006,college
Is Pledging Fun? And How much time does Pledging take up?,"I am going to be a sophomore next semester. I want to rush a fraternity next semester. I decided to rush so that I can have a good social life in college. 


Apart from my academics, I am working on a research project that will take up to 6 hours every week. I am afraid that pledging might take up a lot of time and I won't get any free time after pledging and school work, especially because I am working on the project. 


So, if I am pledging and working 6 hours a week (probably 5 hours), do you think that too much? Do you think I will get any free time?



Will I get any free time to hangout with my friends outside pledging?



Is pledging fun? Can you tell me about your pledging experience?



Do you get to meet sororities? And do you get time to hangout with them?

(I am asking this because my main objective for rushing is to make a group of friends with both girls and guys that I can hangout with on a regular basis.)
",28,1,1190.0859773078562,college
Is a l@ptop essential for college?,Going to a college 5 min drive away from me.,27,0,1191.745329159708,college
College in states with open gun carrying laws,Recently had a discussion with a friend about sending kids to college where carrying an open guy is legal - Texas and North Carolina. Will that make you think twice about sending your kids to college there?,27,3,1336.6670999930413,college
Does Where You Go To School Matter? (And Why Reporters Get This Wrong…),,37,3,1569.2953870300782,college
College Degree – A Necessary Evil,,0,4,1573.19692638193,college
11 Ways to Save Money in College,,1,0,1591.2935699004486,college
What's the point of learning if we forget most of what we learn?,"The title sums it up.
",6,0,1751.3040097152636,college
This College Student Is Trying To Eliminate Small Talk One Big Question At A Time,,0,0,1849.890340733782,college
Please help me choose a college!!,"Hey everyone, I really want to do computer science in my lifetime.

However, I was only accepted to UCSC for CS (Systems Programming) and UCSD as Undeclared.

Now, CSE is very impacted at UCSD, but it is obviously a better school and a better program.

Which do you think is better for me? To go to UCSD and attempt to squeeze my way into CSE, or to have an easier degree from UCSC?

Thank you!",4,0,2029.1012203634116,college
University of Alabama sexual assault statistics,"Any way I can find a comparison of the numbers of sexual assaults including Alabama? Maybe a ""top ten rapiest colleges"" sort of thing.",4,3,2040.845352307856,college
"Im middle class, my father didn't even save up enough to get me through one year of school. He wants me out of the house so community wouldnt be much cheaper. Any suggestions?","I went to one of the best (in reality just means most competitive). But didnt have a great GPA. I got into a bunch of cal state schools, but i dont want to have 60k debt by the end of it. He only saved up 15k",11,0,2043.2833731411895,college
Do you use Quizlet to study? Now you can use it to make easy money,"We've made it easy for your to make money from your hard work. Now you can post your Quizlet.com study guides online to study. 

It's simple. Just take the Quizzes you've made, set a price and share them with your peers.

Interested in more information? e-mail us at support@studysoup.com and we'll help get you set-up.",4,0,2096.164345363412,college
Ole Miss Coed Destroys 166 Years of University Marketing in One Video,,8,3,2191.345340733782,college
What would you do to pay for college?,"I know there are many traditional avenues to pay for school: scholarships, loans, and working a ""part-time"" (often full time) job, but I'm curious to what lengths people would go to pay for a college education.

So, what would you (or did you) do to pay for college?

* Stripping?
* Medical research?
* Donating sperm/eggs?
* ???",14,2,2337.2567990671155,college
http://www.sfgate.com/opinion/openforum/article/Prop-30-funds-for-UC-will-go-to-Wall-Street-4031472.php,,0,0,2529.128454159708,college
Help me choose between four colleges:,"I am an athletic recruit. I don't care about the athletic prowess of the schools, but it'll help with acceptance. Let's assume for funsies that I will get into all four of these schools, and that all four will cost roughly the same to attend.

I wish to major in computer science. Let's hear some pros and cons for:

* Cornell
* Georgia Tech
* Columbia
* Princeton

Thanks guise.",11,0,2563.921590733782,college
So I made this today in Softimage,"TLDR; Made a twig, friend gave it a face.

I made a twig in the warm up exercise:
http://imgur.com/54sM3

posted it on Facebook and it got turned into this:
http://i.imgur.com/bmwDe.jpg

So me and a friend had a fun game and so far the outcome: 
http://imgur.com/K2lMx

Why not take this stick and give it a life :) ",4,4,2589.031856937486,college
Ohio State University Roommate Finder 2016,"Attention all potential students of Ohio State University: An official roommate finder for the class of 2016 has been officially made. Now you can finally meet potential roommates before committing yourself to a room with them. Please like this link to increase the diversity and success rate of finding a roommate!!!!

http://www.facebook.com/OhioStateUniversityRoommateFinder2016",2,5,2777.109090733782,college
So I’m attending Kent State in the fall. Am I gonna have a hard time considering I’m relatively conservative?,I’m well aware most colleges are generally liberal leaning in the first place. However I chose Kent state because of the lower cost and proximity to home. I am a conservative and Kent State I’m pretty sure is ultra liberal. Am I gonna have a hard time? Big mistake?,15,3,112.99274814118942,college
Roommate Troubles,"Hi I am a freshman in college.  I'm 19 years old and i came in to college thinking it was gonna be fun. I don't have to worry about paying bills, working. Just hanging out with friends and having a good time.

NOPE!!!!! 

I'm actually one of those kids that stays in their room most of the day (Except going to classes and eating supper and lunch) 

But every FREAKING TIME my roommate ALWAYS BRINGS IN DIFFERENT GIRLS AND ITS ANNOYING ( I don't want you guys to think I'm gay or nothing) but My roommate is a living cancer. 
And the worst part is.....the chicks he fucks aren't his girlfriends and they're okay with him fucking them. He fucks one of them in the afternoon till 20pm and one at 3:00pm till 3:30pm and the other at 12-midnight to 6 in the morning 
I need sleep 

I try telling him to go fuck them in his car but he says that the girls won't let him and they actually come to my dorm to ""chat"" and keep me company. I'm like ""Bullcrap"" 
You're only in my dorm to do my roommate 

EVERY DAY SAME SEX SCHEDULE ( NO LIE ) 

The girls always ask me ""why don't you like me"" and I just keep on ignoring them 

I actually Sometimes lock my roommate out the door whenever he doesn't have his key and I don't answer the door most of the time because its those three annoying chicks 

But the girls STILL keep bothering me everyday wherever I am (even in the lunchrooms)  they ask ""why don't you like me"" 

Im not gay but I hate when girls only like you for your roommate 

I JUST WANT A NORMAL LIFE 

Please don't take down this post I need answers 

1. What do I do about those annoying chicks? 
2. What do I do about my roommate ?
3. Am I crazy or just overreacting to this cancerous situation ?",7,3,175.8827944374857,college
"A very basic tip from a college freshman who’s very happy, healthy and doing well in class. I immediately found my groove with this one easy trick (professors hate him!)","(Mobile so obv sorry for formatting, also first time posting so sorry if i’m breaking rules etc) 
TL;DR: Use your desk as a work space and your bed for sleeping, that way your mind associates bed with sleep and desk with productivity.

Most dorms have beds and desks i assume? I’ll work under that assumption, because first a very minor tip is invest in a nice desk chair. The chairs that come with the room suck and my $80 desk chair (staples, on sale) is a godsend. It has wheels so i can professor X my way around my floor and it should last all 4 years and beyond, a worthwhile investment. 

Now the real tip, I sleep very regular hours and I only use my bed for sleep. I’m not a productive person, I have an attention deficit disorder, i’m a procrastinator, just not a good student naturally. I used to take naps and would sleep through my work shifts, i slept through my final senior year, when my head hit my pillow during the day I was out. At night I’d spend hours watching youtube before bed. 
Since starting the semester i haven’t been in my bed except for sleeping. I usually go to sleep around 10-12 pm and have woken up before my alarm nearly every day around 7 am. As soon as I go to bed I fall asleep. I spend a lot of time watching youtube, gaming, browsing reddit like one does, but I’ve done this all from my desk. With a comfortable chair I can spend hours at my desk working or whatever and as soon as i get in bed my brain goes “okay sleep time”. 
It’s something so simple that’s gotten me in a healthy schedule I don’t think enough people utilize. Your body really likes routine and if you can set yourself one it makes life so much easier! ",0,0,385.0889518448931,college
What video games relate to/help your college major?,"Just had an interesting thought about what video games might make people want to go into a certain field or are particularly fun for those in a certain field.

Eg. PoliSci: Democracy 3, Crusader Kings 2
Engineering: Bridge building games
Computer Science: Hacknet

What games relate to your major?",17,4,447.54876665970795,college
How bad is a 3.41 GPA?,I’m only two semesters into college and already I’m seeing screenshots of 4.0 gpas,18,0,492.77250508563384,college
[HUMOR] WHEN YOU LIED ON THE COLLEGE APPLICATION AND GOT ACCEPTED ANYWAY,,2,3,521.1118453634116,college
My roommate doesn’t have morals...,"He’s been leading a girl on for months, and finally took her virginity this past weekend. All the while he has been “fucking random sorority whores” and the girl he’s been leading on doesn’t have a clue. What should I do? ",12,0,589.6804680485968,college
Today I stopped mid stride in front of a car that was about to run a red light on campus just to stand and stare at the driver. If they hit me i might make enough to pay for my tuition.,,3,0,624.4133499930413,college
"What would you major in if you could not major in CS, engineering or business?","I go to a university that has competitive majors. You need really high grades to get into the departments for those, so it's unrealistic for me at this time.",22,2,627.7571810115597,college
"College Republicans outed for sharing racist, anti-Semitic memes in a GroupMe",,17,4,629.2771347152635,college
How does instate & out of state tuitions work?,"I'm just curious since I'm a student in another country where universities & colleges tend to have a set tuition no matter where you're from in the country.

I know out of state students pay a lot more, why is this? Especially when that student may be paying for extra costs like dorms and living expenses.

Also, how does a college or university determine if a student is a out of state resident? What if the student decided to move to the state in question and make it their permanent residence, or maybe the entire family moved after a student graduated highschool?",4,3,653.9253060115598,college
Help out a group of dudes in need,"What's up everybody? I know we are all busy with finals and finishing up the semester but I need your help, and it will only take you about one minute. Myself and 7 other dudes are in a group going against a group of 7 women for our Group Dynamics class. The objective is to create a website and have as many people as possible visit our website. The group with the most traffic on their site wins. There are major implications on the line here as far as final grades go. All we ask is to follow this link  https://wordpress.com/posts/139613552
to our website and take the quickest, easiest survey you will ever see, and that's it! This will be a huge help to our group. Thanks again, and good luck wrapping up the semester everybody!

-JC",0,0,675.2163361041523,college
Asking College Students; What is a Tailgate?,"I go around campus, and ask college students in BOCA RATON

I interview people in this **YouTube** video (Giving you heads ups)

Check it: [What is a Tailgate?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hiXDTtYG_WY&t=3s)

I would truly appreciate some critique, i'm just starting out :)

**Don't take this too serious, I just do this for entertainment.**

By: *Alvarox9*",0,3,677.7470189745228,college
Have you ever had a teacher that swears?,"I go to Community College, as I seek to transfer to a University, to save money. This one teacher I have just consistently swears throughout the class. She says it is okay to swear in her class. She says ""Fuck"" constantly and even said ""Guys, do not chase the pussy"". I don't know if she is doing this to try to come across as cool or what. She even cited a study during the class that ""statistically people that swear are smarter than those who do not"". I have never had a teacher act like this in my life.   ",6,2,786.8335583263746,college
"Why does it seem that some of the most noteworthy scientists, doctors, professors, etc seem to come from the most prestigious institutions and not just some small college from their home town?",,3,4,859.3949240671154,college
My friend graduated college a year ago with a 2.3 GPA and is having trouble finding a job.,,19,3,931.0461856411895,college
I have one crazy story! I promise. My chances?,"I never had a interest in College, until the last couple of months. I am currently a senior in high school in Southern California. The reason why I never had an interest in college is that I have ran many successful businesses over my High school years. My most profitable business a Amazon reseller business that would of made me 150k year full time, needed to get shut (my decision) due to some huge over night rule changes. I had other businesses at the time and still do. From that point on I started researching U.S. coin collecting and history related with it. It was a hobby of mine in middle school, collecting mostly. Well now I have learned how to turn into a profitable eBay business, that I just started. I have been doing some extensive research on the hobby in terms of history in the last few months. I have learned a ton, and now have landed with some important connections due to a huge database project I am doing that will benefit the coin community. I am currently in the process of digitizing every coin news paper article, magazine, books, and advertising supplements regarding Lincoln cents, and error coins released in the last 110 years.  This project has landed me in contact with some higher up people in the coin community. I am talking about people with masters degrees and published authors. I bumped into a guy last night. I told him my whole story. He used to be an admissions officer at the University Virginia. He got his BA at Cambridge and he went to Berkeley and got MBA in business. He was really surprised that I never applied to any 4 year schools. My plan has been all along to just go to a great community college by my house. The reason was because my 9-12th GPA is a 3.2 and my one SAT score is only a 1200. I only took the SAT once. I took it because I was curious what I would score on it not because I was using it for college. Because of that I never studied for it, and didn't put 100% of my effort in it. I have never been any really credible club. However I have around 350 hours of community service, thanks to my dad working for a nonprofit that does a ton of charity work, and also my church. My biggest regret was that I was offered to be a intern at one of top computer crime labs in the country for a police department, I choose to deny their offer because of how busy I with me running my businesses. I regret that decision to this very day. I decided 3 months ago to take up a minimum wage job at a local frozen yogurt place to see how it was working for someone else and what I could learn from so one one day open a retail or restaurant business my self. I still work their, but only a 10 hours a week, its a great experience though. The former admissions officer at Virginia said I was crazy not to apply to any Universities. He said that I would of got accepted to many business schools for my undergraduate based on special circumstances. Now back to research report I am doing. He said that once I finish this report, that it will highly benefit the coin community and that I should publish a book in it. He said he knows of a couple publishers personally and can get me to have a book published. So here are my options, what should I do.  

Option 1: Go to community college, continue this research report, and get a book published in 2 years, and set aside my time consuming profitable businesses. This would help me to get into a top 10 business school to complete by BA

 Option 2: Apply to many universities now, and go where ever I get accepted. I would continue to work on my research project, and still get a book published. I would than transfer to a big business school, for my last 2 years for my BA.

Option 3: Take a gap year. Start running my 2 businesses full time, I am 95% positive I will make 100-130k my first year. And set aside my research project. 

On a side note. I am completely capable of getting good grades. I got straight A's 7-9th grade when I had no businesses running. I didn't start my first serious business until 10th grade. I have thoughts that if I go to community college, I won't be around the best type of people influencing me to drop out of school completely to do work full time. 

Also it just happens that I my new business partner happens to be the smartest kid in my school. Even though he looks completely normal. He has a  5.2 GPA. This is the highest GPA at out school out of 2600 kids, in a middle class area. He also is in the top 99% percentile for the SAT and ACT.  He also happens to work for a huge hospital, and has a written research report for caner that is award winning. He also is in two sports, and is president of 2 of top 5 biggest clubs in our campus. Any advice for him, he still hasn't gotten a response from any IVY league school or Berkeley. He did get accepted into Rice, USC, and UCLA. Any advice for him to get him a response back sooner from the top big schools?

Back to me.
What option should I take?  And is there a solid chance this late in my senior year to getting accepted in a semi decent four year University for business.",6,0,938.1774472152634,college
"How do I, a white male, earn an internship through a diversity program that claims the market is too white and too male?","My family is one of immigrants. I think that fits the diversity bill quite well. But it was uncomfortable being the only white man in the informational meeting listening to the speaker tell the rest of the audience (and myself too, I guess) that the employer's their company works with aren't looking for ""someone like me"". *emphasis on the air quotes there*",27,0,951.7122504560042,college
"In College, why do people have to take classes that have nothing to do with their major?",Isn't this just taking away valuable time from what I actually want to get a job in?,34,0,1041.1664865671155,college
Delaying graduation a semester to pursue higher math?,"Hi, a question for you guys. I'm majoring in marketing; however, I also really like math! I figure if I'm going to invest time and money in college I really want to invest in my mathematic abilities... I want to do (Calc 1, 2, 3, differential equations, and linear algebra.) My major only needs calculus one; however, I have no interest in majoring in math! I want to major in marketing, but again, if I'm going to spend time and money in college I want both: a really good math foundation that'll serve me for life, and my major, even if it's at the cost of delaying my graduation a semester... is this naive and dumb, or proactive and smart? Please let me know... I'm highly self-motivated when it comes to learning; I figure I can almost teach myself anything via textbooks and the internet, expect higher math!  It's hard to find good resources that thoroughly cover things like differential equations & linear algebra. If I'm going to learn it, now really seems like my own time.

&#x200B;

\-You guys gave me some awesome resources, thank you!",66,92,119.30146341896719,college
4.3 and rejected from UCSD any body else have a similar situation.,"Hey guys as the title suggests had a 4.3 10-12 GPA, 28 ACT, president of Habitat for Humanity, worked abroad over summer, own my own dog walking business, had my own internship, and competed in FBLA. I got rejected from San Diego economics major. I don't want this to come off as arrogant or give the impression that think I should have gotten in, but people I know people with less impressive GPAs and extracurriculars that got accepted. The AP and Honors classes I took were H biology, AP environmental science, AP Euro, Honors french 4, AP US history , Honors Chemistry, AP french 5, AP art history, AP Government, and H physiology. Anybody else have similar results? ",40,8,1675.961266659708,college
I get that exchanging sexual favors with a professor in exchange for getting better grades in class is frowned upon. But that's not my problem. My real problem comes from people who make the students out to be the victim,"It's one thing if they were manipulated or coerced. But I mean come on. Sex is sex. They're both adults. Every college student's gotta get laid at some point. And if it just so happens to be the attractive professor, so be it",3,0,705.0788476782265,college
Here’s a lesson college students can learn from lions.,"When a young lion is cast out of the pride to fend for himself, he faces a steep learning curve.

His years of easy meals from his mother and aunts will continue no longer.

Now, he must hunt for himself.

He’s learned the basics from prior generations. But only the bare basics. His hunts will sputter along for some time. Many of his hunts, will be laughable.

He won’t time his sprints correctly. His sprints will begin far outside of the range of his endurance.

He’ll trip over brush. He’ll trip over his own feet.

He’ll foolishly tackle the alpha bull of the herd, getting shaken off like a bad habit.

He’ll wear himself out trying to chase too-fast prey.

Many of his attempts will get him dinged up and bloodied.

He’ll stumble into enemy territory and, if he is lucky, escape with his life.

He’ll stalk too loudly, crunching on loud brush. His hiding spots will be inadequate.

His choice of prey will seem devoid of any logic.

A long list of mistakes will puncture each of his hunting attempts.

He will be reminded of those mistakes as his stomach groans and his juicy prey gallops away.

A thousand generations of evolution will chant: Eat or die. Kill or die. Eat or Die. Kill or die.

Hunting is his singularity, it defines his existence. Every move, every skill, every ounce of effort, revolves around his next kill.

Until he dies or until he eats, he will not relent.

He will eventually get kills. And with each attempt and each kill, he will improve.

He will better time his sprints. He will pick better angles. He will master the geometry of an effective ambush.

He will recognize unfavorable terrain. He will recognize the scent of enemy males. He will draw the lines of territory in his mind. Lines to avoid. Lines of certain death.

His experience will bring recognition. And with that recognition, competency.

He’ll learn to watch the movement of prey, to notice the fluidity of their steps, watching for limps, staggers, fatigue. He will learn to judge the confidence of their posture.

His sharpening eye for weakness will be paired with an increasing capacity for violence.

His legs and back will become stronger. His coordination will improve.

His mane will fill in. His fighting prowess will grow as he learns to use his teeth and claws.

Scars will form on his face and body. They will be visible signals, invitations to oncoming challengers:

“come - let us speak in the language we know best.”

No longer a cub. No longer weak.

He can now hunt. He can now fight. He is ready. He will not die. He will live.


A young male lion has one goal: to eat.

This pursuit, born of necessity, demands well-honed savagery.

Everything he does, every skill, every competency, is a result of pursuing that goal.

When a lion fails a hunt, he extracts only useful information from that failure, and then, he moves forward to his next attempt.

There is no self-pity for failed hunts.

There is no comparing his hunting prowess to that of others.

A lion’s mentality toward success offers a useful lesson to our own goals and path forward.

Treat success as your only option and you won’t even notice the failures. You will only get better.",10,18,20.058685641189417,college
It's influencing all of us,,0,17,2138.0396462893377,college
Professor learned my mom died 6 months ago and wrote me this letter. The last 2 sentences... I'm crying,,126,7713,687.1171806432031,college
"Ever have a kid in class show up and realize it’s an exam day, then gets up and leaves in a panic?","I’m sure you’ve seen a kid like this before at the college level. Just straight up not prepared but always around? Met him a few years back, he was in 4 of my classes. He was always surprised when an exam hit, he sat next to me one day and asked if there was an exam on account of everyone having a Scantron in front of them. I told him yes, there’s an exam. He literally got up and left. Didn’t take the exam. Next exam rolls around, he seems to know what’s going on because he brings a Scantron. Only a Scantron though. No pencil, not even his backpack or anything. I luckily give him one. 

He started complaining to me a few weeks later that he was failing and the professor was out to get him. I saw him around off and on through the years. I hope he got it together. ",663,6235,321.250444532092,college
"Roommate from hell: “I have a rice cooker, lava lamp and natural sound maker, could you bring microwave, printer and fridge?”",,379,6112,259.3362431432031,college
Professor locked me out from taking a quiz for showing up at exactly 8am (when class starts),"I showed up at exactly 8am (the clock literally just changed from 7:59) and when I went to open the door, the professor slammed it back against me and gave me a nasty look.

This guy lets in kids who are late but slammed the door for me, at 8am. The quiz had not even started. 

Since I had to take a 0 my quiz average dropped significantly (this is 1/3 of our grade).

I went up to him after class (he let me in after the quiz) and he told me too bad, I should’ve showed up at 7:59.

I WAS ON TIME. I feel like this is incredibly unreasonable and I do not know what to do.

Edit: emailed department chair, she basically talked to him and said that the quiz had already started so I need to go to his office hours and try and deal with it on my own. 

Edit: my final grade drops from an A- to a B+ (only 3 points - but still significant) 

Edit: appreciate the somewhat harsh feedback, I do need to be earlier. I literally show up like 7:57 every class and never have a problem. I just thought it was crazy to make my grade suffer when I was there at the stated time. But yes, I know how important timing is IRL

To everyone saying I’m clearly lying: I took this screenshot when I was standing outside showing my professor my phone. 8:00 on the dot: https://imgur.com/a/tJnfWPn

Edit: I’ve been banned from commenting",782,4706,325.3586505506105,college
"Professor gave me a 0 on an in-class assignment, for which I was absent due to being on an operating table.","I’m a Geographic Information Science Major, and this semester was going so great, until I developed kidney stones. I did everything I could to help my teachers help me; I gave them advanced notice for when I’d be gone, written excuses ASAP. I emailed all of my professors just as a backup while I was in pre-op. Every upper level professor was so considerate and helpful, and offered to aide me in any way possible. Then there was my Public Speaking teacher. She’s a very stuck-up type, who if you ask a question, she just directs you to the syllabus. Well when I noticed a failed grade on the day I was getting a kidney operation, I kindly asked her, “I noticed a zero entered for this assignment. Since I was in surgery that day, is there any way I can make it up? I’d be very grateful.” And her response was, “As per the CMS210 syllabus, students will not be offered the ability to make up missed in-class work.” 
     
It’s really screwing with my mind and doesn’t feel right that I’m suffering in this gen-ed course because of this. Does anyone have any insight on dealing with these types of professors?",251,4541,339.9938357357957,college
This would solve a lot of problems,,132,4189,207.91963434690678,college
Low pass rates are not something to brag about,"I have known a couple of professors (and heard of many more) that will talk about having a low pass rate either for exams or the class as a bragging point. I understand that a class should be engaging and challenging and am of the opinion a degree needs to be earned. However, at a certain point a line needs to drawn. It reflects poorly on you as a teacher. Either your tests are unfair or something else you are doing is obstructing the class. I would love to hear other opinions on this.",419,4071,372.1006412913513,college
SMELL TEST,,181,3977,363.2931991617216,college
"Looking back at high school makes me feel like college prep/acceptance was ""overblown"".",I don't know if it's just me but I'm junior (still sophomore based on credits) now at my local state school. I've been thinking back to the SAT prep and all that stuff we had drilled into our heads during our junior and senior years at high school. The weird thing is that high school made getting accepted to college feel like this big thing but now it feels like almost nothing at all. Does anybody else have a similar thoughts about this?,247,3234,316.0403056432031,college
Anyone else feel like things just aren’t the same when visiting home during breaks?,"I remember last year I was so excited and a little homesick to fly back home and it just felt really good and comfortable being with my family. But this year
it just sort of feels like I’m an outsider at times. My younger sibling is already getting ready for college and my parents are low key getting old which sort of makes me sad. Even little shit like moving random boxes in my old room or forgetting where the new spot where they put the car keys makes me feel strange. 

Even when i go to certain local spots I used to go to all the time, home in general, just feels like another place....i told my dad how i felt and he just said it’s part of growing up and finding yourself but idk how to feel rn lol. 

***edit*** : i didn’t know so people could relate lol. Thanks y’all...bless up 🙏",228,3001,330.9310463839438,college
"Everyone have a safe fourth, and don’t procrastinate!",,31,2937,106.04587277283271,college
We’ve all been through this,,104,2933,338.2340903654253,college
Walked in on my roommate sucking his own dick,"I honestly don’t mind that much because I’ve seen my fair share of weird shit on the internet, and I’m pretty comfortable with nudity and masturbation, but my poor roommate is probably really embarrased. He immediately ran into the bathroom, got dressed and left out of my suitemate’s door (we share a bathroom with them). I haven’t seen him since then and I hope  he isn’t too mortified to the point where he’s scared to come back to the room. Should I text/say anything to make him feel better or would that just make it worse and I should just act like it never happened? Guess I should knock in the future.

I’m actually kind of impressed he’s that flexible

EDIT: I just sent him a text saying “you’ve got nothing to be embarrased about bro. Sorry for not knocking” and I got a “thanks” back. Still waiting for him to return.

EDIT 2: He just came back and immediately told me extremely apologetically that “he was sorry I had to see that” and I told him it’s all good and to enjoy what makes him happy

EDIT 3: We talked a little more and I told him that I created this thread and encouraged him to respond to some of your questions. He thought the fact that I did this was hilarious and decided to make an AMA thread: https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/a2yhwp/i_am_the_roommate_that_got_caught_sucking_his_own/?st=JP9FD0A2&sh=bf0ce61d",199,2774,317.7878635135734,college
"""The Last Study""",,49,2557,310.455294069129,college
Someone got caught cheating on their final today.,"So today during one of my finals, I hear the teacher ask this one guy what he's doing. The guy says nothing, and the teacher demands the jacket sitting on his lap. Guy says ""why would I give my jacket, are you being serious right now?""

Teacher was serious and got the jacket. A phone with presumably answers on it was found. Teacher immediately says ""shut down your computer and leave. You just failed my class"". 

He's already a notoriously hard teacher and has a heavy Chinese accent, so the class was extremely difficult to begin with. But now this student has spent an entire semester, all to be kicked out on his LAST day in class. 

Be careful guys and don't cheat. This was an eye opener. Usually teachers have been lenient and when someone gets caught they just either get a warning or point reduction. But seeing that made my heart drop. It's not worth failing the class and possibly getting expelled!!

Do you guys have any cheating stories that either you yourself did (hypothetically of course), or did someone in any of your classes ever get caught cheating? What happened?

Edit: when I say ""be careful guys and don't cheat"" I'm not saying be careful *while* cheating. I'm saying be careful to make sure you don't even accidentally glance at a neighbors paper, or pull out your phone just to check how much time you have left etc. I've seen people wrongly accused of cheating before due to a stupid mistake like that. So that's what I mean by be careful. Sorry for lack of clarification.

Edit2: yes my school does expel students caught. But it's up to the teacher to report it to the dean. If it's a major class they typically do. If it's an elective they usually just give an F. My school isn't ""lenient"". Idk if he got expelled or not. But that teachers about to be fired for being a horrible teacher, so I doubt he even wants to report anything to the dean. No telling what happened. I've had friends expelled for cheating though, so no my school isn't lazy with their honor policy.",506,2542,164.07103480986976,college
This is Going to the Meme Hall of Fame....,,21,2481,502.04506258764746,college
You ever fail an exam so badly that you feel sorry for your professor having to grade it?,"Failed the absolute fuck out of my first Calc 3 exam. Like, I don’t think I’ve ever failed a test so bad in my life. Thank god he drops the lowest test grade so I’m not stressing about it TOO much bc I know I could’ve done much better had I spent more time studying the material. But holy shit did I fail it. I actually felt embarrassed turning that trainwreck in to my professor and I feel so bad for him that he has to grade that mess 😂",153,2453,35.22205332838826,college
My grandpa is preparing to hospice at home for stage 4 cancer and has just left the hospital. Emailed my professors to let them know I won’t be in class- it touched me how my professor responded,,54,2218,190.8736505506105,college
I added my professor on Facebook. No regrets.,,52,2170,671.952794069129,college
"Best feeling in the world, stress has left my body.",,61,2162,484.0066135135735,college
Finals week,,26,2013,575.988882032092,college
Kicked out of residence hall and terminated from RA position for performing CPR on student.. where to go from here?,"I attend a major university with 25000 students where I was a summer RA (and going to be Fall/Spring as well). The summer term ended for the kids a week or so ago and most stayed in the resident hall for the fall semester. 

During a night round (around 2am), I came across a kid unconscious/not breathing. Now, we were specifically told not to touch any residents (even if injured or dead), but I'm an EMT and nursing student, so my gut reaction was to start CPR (and use my pocket mask which I carry on a key chain). 

I call UPD and our RD. UPD arrived and we were alternating compression until the ambulance arrived. The RD also came but at no point told me to stop. Once the kid was transported to the hospital (he did survive but is in critical condition - he essentially overdose on alcohol), my RD gave me counseling resources but ended the incident with telling me I violated their policy despite helping him and that I would be written up.

Last Friday morning was my judicial hearing with the residence life staff who decided I would be removed effective- immediately from my RA title and the campus residence halls as a resident. Obviously, I am devastated to have lost my job, salary, free room/board, friends, etc... but I am willing to have lost all of that for the kids life who was saved. 

So now, I ask what should I do. Should I take the semester off (I live three hours away), take a loan out for an apartment, somehow find another place? I need help",7,1967,53.86309499505493,college
"I didn’t know where else to post this, but I wanted to share! I’m officially getting my Masters degree in May!",,50,1832,185.1712894394994,college
In high school I was a C student at best (and I had a few Ds on my transcript) and my college basically took a chance on admitting me. These are my grades for my first year of college!,,127,1820,287.00606953209194,college
Doing a project minutes before my presentation.,"I was told this would be appreciated here.

I'm 21 and in my senior year of college but I know there's people here that can relate to this in one way or another.

So last semester, in the final weeks of the semester, I had a powerpoint presentation due in my nutrition class. We were all assigned a vitamin and had to make a presentation about this vitamin.

This project was assigned to us on the first day of the semester and I knew this was going to be a quick, easy A, so like every student ever, I said ""meh, I'll do it later."" WELL, later never came but you know what did come? The day of the presentations. So I stroll into this class, 9:30 am, iced coffee in hand, laid back, no concern over anything. The kid (S) next to me (B), leans over and goes

S: How's your presentation look?

B: Ha, what presentation?

S: ...

B: ...

S: ...

S: The presentation that's due today.

Let me just say that my heart has never dropped so low, out my ass, and into the center of the Earth so fast in my life.

B: ...oh shit.

So, my last name starts with A... and the professor (P) goes:

P: Alright, we're gonna start the presentations soon and I'm just gonna go in alphabetical order.

Thank fuck that there were a few people before me that also had last names that started with A. So I I M M E D I A T E L Y open a fresh powerpoint, make a title card, and start Googling like I've never Googled in my life. I pulled up the project rubric in a small window on my laptop and I literally just started copying and pasting every question that was required to be in the presentation.

I literally made a decent looking in 10 minutes and long story short, I got an A somehow. I somehow got an A on the most rushed piece of a shit thing I have ever produced in my academic career. It was so hard for me not to laugh while I was presenting and S was sitting there giggling his ass off cause he knew what I had done and that he had saved my ass.

But yeah, don't procrastinate, set reminders, keep a planner, use a calendar, something.

If anyone wants to see the powerpoint, I can post it in the comments.

This is the powerpoint:

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11_cSS0KX-ppUgD3pN-bKWRoDR_RZq27pME9CD2R_tVE/edit?usp=sharing",141,1775,36.97475008764752,college
Shoutout to all the professors who only use textbooks that can be found for free online,And FUCK YOU to all the professors who require everyone to buy the $75 textbook that they themselves wrote...,146,1771,266.1264977728327,college
"The real walk of shame isn’t after sex, it’s after being in a class the professor starts talking and you realize you aren’t supposed to be there","Even worse on the third week of school like myself. On the plus side it was the right room just an hour early.

Edit: Bonus points if it’s a small class instead of a giant lecture you can just slip out of.",54,1762,255.24419453209197,college
One of the English professors at my university keeps a wall of rejection letters for the plays he’s submitted,,38,1738,598.1459422172771,college
2.8 to 3.5 GPA comeback even with a year left to improve it more. It’s the most significant achievement I’ve ever accomplished,,217,1690,432.10196073579567,college
"Ever since I left for college, my little sister has been spamming my youtube comments with nice messages",,44,1666,378.91154406912904,college
For those struggling through organic chemistry.. here’s my isopropyl cat,,20,1613,246.2369028654253,college
You wish.,,56,1595,153.50407879135125,college
Does anyone else get discouraged when people who cheat on everything and learn nothing make better grades than those who put the work in?,"I know I am furious about it. I used to never care if people cheated, but a classmate made a comment that sent me over the edge. I should mention I am nervous as hell this time of year because I need to maintain my GPA to stay eligible for classes. So I take my grades super seriously lately. 

But there are a few people who blatantly cheat on everything and never learned a single thing all semester except how to say 'no comprendo' to every single question (I'm talking about a Spanish class) and then laugh about it with their group. Those guys also all have A's. 

One guy mentioned to me that he bets I have a high grade if he can get a 90% for the class. I was instantly furious because my average is less than a 80 even though I bend over backwards for that class and need the B to stay in school. 

Is it normal for people to get discouraged like that? You freak out over this class yet someone else barely remembers they're in it and they are the one with the better grade. I'm really not sure how to feel or if I should bring it up with the professor. ",181,1584,326.29273619875863,college
I wore my Snapchat Spectacles during graduation,,68,1574,521.6798426802401,college
"Found this while browsing Reddit, an extremely useful tool for any body who has a paper due.",,30,1566,295.9737199950549,college
Is this even allowed during a 3 hour class?,,182,1564,275.2086736987586,college
Best email possible at the end of a semester,,73,1554,687.9094491617216,college
Mo Bamba style grad cap,,34,1531,305.02142832838825,college
"For the last 4 years, I thought every semester would be my last. Today, I got to walk across the stage and receive my degree. Even if you feel like everything is going to hell, there is always something to salvage and always a path forwards. Look for your next path.",,84,1516,302.399669069129,college
Anyone else kinda lonely in college?,To me it seems like it's nothing what people have told me it would be. I've been trying to interact and introduce myself with almost everyone but nothing seems to be clicking in terms of connecting with someone.,241,1519,30.22817601357345,college
LPT: Can't find a scientific article online? Email the author! They will most likely be happy to send it to you for free.,,42,1491,335.77828018024013,college
College in one sentence,"""I set a reminder for homework due today and panicked forgetting I did it already."" That's my sentence. What's yours?

Edit: This seriously blew up, you guys have hilarious sentences too, ly all and gl this semester people. First week COMPLETE!",313,1483,43.46881258764753,college
Everyone was sharing their cute dorms so I just wanted to chime in :),,17,1480,772.8844028654253,college
On a brighter note....,,18,1466,377.2109306432031,college
does it not feel like Christmas to anyone else?,"i just finished my first semester of freshman year, and wow, it was terrible. long story short, everything that could have went wrong, went wrong, and i barely met my gpa requirent by .1. im back home for Christmas, and maybe it’s just because im older, but it’s Christmas day and i don’t feel happy. i spent a decent part of my morning crying in the shower thinking about everything that had happened. i don’t have any friends in my hometown and my grandparents couldn’t make it because grandfather is recovering from surgery (he’s fine btw he’s just the one that usually drives and he can’t rn). sorry this is a bit sad, but i was just wondering if anyone one else felt this way about the holidays. ",132,1462,296.3300394394994,college
Anyone get paranoid that even though you're making your own work that it will still come up on a plagiarism checker?,"As a CS student, I'm always scared that my programs or essays will just by chance be very similar to another one. Especially with relatively simple programming assignments.",91,1443,45.146914439499376,college
Anyone else supposed to be studying right now for an exam?,"I have an exam on Thursday and here I am, I've wasted the past 3 hours browsing reddit (kill me now). Is it just me? ",241,1434,313.32282879135124,college
Just a friendly reminder to incoming freshmen: skipping class now isn’t worth the stress of trying to catch up later.,,95,1416,478.01613897653647,college
Anyone else stuck in this cycle you can't get out of?,"Every semester is always the same for me. I start the semester off with an incredible amount of determination, swearing that I will be on top of all my work and such. Then, after a month or so, the laziness and procrastination kicks in, and I start falling off. Slowly, I start delaying my work and studying until the very last minute and find myself eventually being behind on the material for all of my classes. After that point I am just hoping that semester ends already, so I can get a fresh start and hope I'll be more studious next semester (hint: no I won't) . ",144,1416,231.9201783283883,college
Thought this might be useful for some of you,,12,1410,465.3791135135735,college
Don't be that kid,"You know who I'm talking about.

The one who asks questions because he likes to hear is own voice and has nothing to do with the focused material. 

The guy who asks the question not due to genuine confusion, but just to show the class that he read ahead.

There's a time and place for everything and I encourage enthusiasm for the material, but dont fucking interrupt the professor 5 times during the class with questions about shit you saw on a YouTube video. 

Sorry, I'm a little jaded today. ",121,1402,416.3521343469068,college
"Happy Mother’s Day to all the students who are juggling both motherhood and college. You’re doing amazing, and I’m proud of you. 💜",,29,1381,158.0802593469068,college
this dude brought a whole ass turtle to our environmental science lecture,,56,1384,357.2423426802401,college
"Do you guys keep seeing some people over and over again even if you guys don't know each other, never spoke, and have never been in the same class? Do you guys get curious about that person?","I happen to keep seeing a few people around on campus. I don't know that person, never spoke with him/her and never took the same class together.

But seeing someone over and over again kinda makes me curious. I like making new friends and I think to myself whether I can be friends with that person. Considering talking to them sometime but I don't know what to say haha.

By pure chance, I happen to be in two classes with one person I have been seeing around. Maybe I will have a chance to talk to her and make a new friend.

Anyone got a similar experience in college?",99,1368,6.071219995054934,college
How the hell do people party 3-4 days a week?,I go to a big state school and going out 3 days a week is almost normal here.  I truly don't understand it.  I usually go out once a week and even that can be exhausting for me.  I have a super heavy workload and all I want to do on the weekends is relax.  How do people have the stamina to go out that often and still get decent grades??,293,1351,18.3356991617216,college
Does anyone else feel like college is a means to an end and no longer an education?,"Going into my Junior year and I've found that my love of learning from high school is all but gone. College just doesn't feel like ""school"" anymore, but more a means to get a degree and then get a job from it. Yes, I love my major and I am very excited to get a career in it, but I also feel like most of what I am learning will end up being useless for whatever job I end up in. My internship this summer has shown me that's the case as of right now.

I don't go to college anymore to learn and understand things, because so much more emphasis is put on short-term understanding for a grade rather than long-term understanding and application for a career. Its just frustrating and disheartening in a way. There are definitely parts of attending university that I find really rewarding and great like social circles and the ability to pursue whatever you want in life, but at its core it should be about education, and it doesn't feel like it is.",144,1353,91.45076860616605,college
Anyone feel like they’re living the same day over and over?,"I go to class, do my homework in the library, go to another class and come home. That basically sums up my entire day. On the weekends, I literally have nothing to do besides watch anime. I’ve picked up reading again which is great but I still feel really bored with my life. This is my second year of community college and I feel kinda bummed out.",118,1334,42.19250471727716,college
GET YOUR FLU SHOTS,Seriously guys. Just go to CVS and get the free flu shots.,173,1325,12.851000087647526,college
Getting my MBA this Saturday (and I'm from Britney Spears's hometown),,23,1317,8.032551013573453,college
"Advice: Instead of doing drugs, just submit your essay 2 minutes before the deadline", Put away the cocaine and consider getting high on the rush that comes right as you click “submit” at 11:58 PM. Works like a charm!,47,1314,339.32067601357346,college
Finals are over so I decided to give my room a much needed clean. Good luck to everyone and keep pushing!!,,103,1308,529.872944532092,college
"Unwholesomely wholesome, don’t be self conscious",,20,1297,423.2858843469068,college
The Reason Group Projects Suck,,116,1292,591.0383611987587,college
I go to college in 19 days and my roommate has blocked my number and cut off all communication,"Has anyone ever had this happen? Anything similar? What do I even do about this? I didn’t really like him to begin with, which is entirely based on some text conversations and his lack of communication, so I’m fully aware that I don’t have the right to be full-blown angry at him since I’ve never even talked on the phone with him, but I have to say I never expected to be ghosted by someone I’ve never even met and am now supposed to live with for 9 months.

EDIT: Checked my school’s website and it turns out he moved out and didn’t tell me. Wow.

EDIT 2: I’ve fallen victim to one of the classic blunders! He just messaged me back on IG and my texts from the last several days delivered, indicated he did not in fact block me! He said he’s been in the hospital the past few days (explains why the texts didn’t deliver), but he’s still no longer showing up on the housing portal; according to that I’m still solo.

EDIT 3: He said he’s not attending my school this semester so he won’t be my roommate.

EDIT 4: I have been assigned a new roommate as of 8/1. It’s been an interesting saga, thanks for the sympathizing and the upvotes.",50,1282,80.01193758764754,college
Professors are catching on,,102,1278,262.76910193949936,college
Im 18 but i haven't grown up yet,,198,1266,387.8172848098697,college
"Finally after taking calculus 3 times and getting a D the first two times, I’m going to pass this term and when I spoke with my professor he said I have a really good shot at getting an A. I’m unbelievably relieved and excited that I’m not a complete moron.",,100,1256,224.76696073579566,college
this is not r/ApplyingToCollege nor r/collegecompare,"Dear high schoolers: 

We are all excited for you as you receive your letters of admission.  This is a big milestone in your academic career and you've got big decisions in front of you.

However, r/college is not the place to ask admission questions, nor to ask which school you should go to.  

* If you have questions about admission (questions about your stats or chances, help for an application essay, what to do if you made a mistake in an application, what to do in high school to prepare for college, where you should apply, etc.), post in r/ApplyingToCollege
* If you want opinions on which college is better or which one you should go to, post in r/collegecompare
* If you have questions about federal student financial aid, post in the [FAFSA Megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/avfpy3/fafsa_questions_get_help_here/)
* If you have questions about making friends at college, post in the [Making Friends Megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/b08xoy/how_to_make_friends_in_collegewill_i_make_friends/)

Everyone wishes you the best and looks forward to seeing you on a college campus this fall.",56,1251,195.42314129135124,college
My friends class received this holiday email from their professor earlier today,,64,1246,693.0896690691291,college
After every semester!,,23,1237,664.446081106166,college
"Dear Incoming Freshmen,","As the summer is winding down and you are getting ready to leave home and go off to your college of choice (if you haven’t already), this post is for you. 

Leaving for college is both a liberating and terrifying experience. You leave everything that you’ve ever known to go to this place to peruse a better life for yourself. While there is much honor in doing this, there is no doubt that you feel scared to leave the comfort of your parents home and the life that you have become accustomed to. You will be leaving your parents and your home (for those of you not commuting), your friends, your pets, your room, etc. You go to this new place with no idea what to expect and not knowing many people. Many college students have gone through this. 

As a sophomore, I will admit that I do not know everything that there is to no know about going away to college. However, I can say that I can offer pieces of advice. 

Going away to college is a big deal. It is a major transitional period in your life. Your parents know this, your professors know this. That being said, in your freshman year, professors and school officials do tend to be more lenient toward freshman because they are adjusting to the new lifestyle of living away from home and on their own. 

Once you move in to your new dorm, the reality of the situation will not begin to set in until your parents leave (If they helped you move in. I know that some kids drive themselves). Once they leave, take some time to unpack and organize your things. Then maybe take a walk around campus, either by yourself or with a roommate, to familiarize yourself with your surroundings and the layout of the campus. 

Don’t try to join too many clubs or organizations because if you do what I did, you try to sign up for as many things as possible. Please take into consideration that you are acclimating to this new lifestyle and don’t try to overwhelm yourself with unnecessary activities. You also need to make time to do everything, such as study and do your laundry. More power to those that can handle it all though.

Remember to be respectful of your roommate. You will share a room and maybe a bathroom with this person for the whole year. It is better to be at a good understanding of each other’s boundaries then to deal with the fallout from not doing so later. Also remember to set up those boundaries earlier. Your RAs will most likely encourage this. An RA told me something that I will never forget and its that you will not always be best friends with your roommate, sometimes you are just simply that; roommates. 

Keep your classes and classwork organized. You will save so much time not having to dig through piles of paper to find one assignment. Personally, I use separate binders for each class but that’s just me. 

Figure out a good sleep schedule that works for you and stick to it. Don’t wake up at staggered times and go to bed at staggered times. There were countless times that I would have an 12pm class as my first one that day and sleep until 11:30 and then not want to go to bed until 1 or 2 the following night before I had an 8am the next day. Sleep is more important than you think.

Always print things out in advance. You don’t want printer problems to screw you over 15 minutes before you have to turn it in. Print it out ASAP to save yourself some stress. 

Never feel pressured into partying. If you want to go to a party, then by all means go. If it is not your thing, then don’t go. Just make sure that it will not be an inconvenience to your schoolwork. It is okay to say no to going to a party. I know many, many people that made partying their first priority and they dropped out by the start of the second semester. It’s important to have a good balance between fun and work. 

Go to class!! Just go. You don’t want to miss one and be out of the loop and have no idea what’s going on. If you have to miss one because you are sick or there are family issues going on, email your teacher or ask classmates to catch you up, maybe even bring you a copy of class work. You have unlimited resources to keep you caught up. 

In regard to the above paragraph, you are allotted a certain amount of classes that you can miss before you fail. Do not abuse these because I guarantee you that there will come a day where you really wish that you had a freebie to use but you used them all in the first two months. Just keep a couple in the reserves and use them wisely. 

And last but not least, do what YOU want to do. Do what makes YOU happy and what you feel is best for yourself. Don’t do things you don’t want to do because your friends are doing them. Don’t do something that you don’t want to do because your parents are forcing you to. Do what makes YOU happy. And while you may feel pressured from all sides to do things that don’t make you happy, in the end is that really a way to live your life? Constantly bending over backwards for something you don’t like? Be yourself. Do what you love. Be happy. College only lasts for so long so enjoy the time that you have there. 

Sincerely, 
Your neighborhood sophomore 

CU’ 22

Edit: grammar & spellling",79,1234,65.86264360616605,college
"Hasn't been cleaned for 2 days, want to switch to a suite but dont wanna leave my roomate for a random, any advice?",,139,1215,4.259379717277156,college
Do you think professors should be required to speak better English?,"Now before you think this sounds racist or xenophobic or anything please hear me out. I know many professors are only teaching here for research purposes, and many are foreign. And I'm totally fine with that.

But some of my professors grasp of the English language is so poor that it is seriously affecting my ability to be successful in those classes. 2/4 of my professors can barely get their point across, and the majority of the time I have no idea what they are saying. To make matters worse, these 2 professors teach the harder 2 of my 4 classes. Their online slides are just bullet points that they elaborate on with their voice, so that doesn't help either.

What can I do about this? I'm not exaggerating when I say that this is negatively affecting my grade. I could try to teach myself everything, and I likely will end up doing that, but I feel that the university should at least be required to provide a professor that speaks conversational English if we're paying exorbitant amounts for tuition.

Thoughts?",242,1210,32.931254717277156,college
Why is no one else raising their hand?,"In the majority of my classes, people don’t contribute to the professor’s questions. They don’t have anything to offer, didn’t read, are shy, idek - but it is so awkward. I always raise my hand, but then I feel guilty for always answering the questions, like I seem like a know-it-all. I wait for others to raise their hand first, to give them a chance and not be annoying, but it always comes down to me having to be the one to contribute.  

No one makes a move or says anything, just crickets. It ends up seeming really unbalanced because I’m the only one talking, but I’d like it if others had something to say, too. Does anyone else experience this? Is this a common thing?",267,1198,50.29066443949937,college
This $7.24 Amazon textbook for $756.63 when you miss the rental deadline,,76,1198,157.43616212468456,college
Started my postgrad Statistics class today. The professor started with how there can be a dinosaur in your data (made with r studio),,21,1196,113.45255101357345,college
A Former Student’s Top Tips for College,"As a recent graduate and with many people starting college on Monday, I thought I would pass on some tips that helped me throughout my studies. These are some tips I really haven’t seen mentioned before and although some of these tips may not be applicable to everyone, they sure helped me out. 

1. Network as many people as you can to and go out of your way to help people. 

I would say I talked to about 50% of the people in my classes (about class size of 40) and got to know about 5 people from each class really well. When I had a question about homework I always had someone to ask and when people asked me a question I tried my best to answer. I would even used my tablet to make a step by step example to help them understand the topic better. When I graduated I got multiple jobs interviews/offers because people knew the type of person I was and recommended me for the job at the company they worked for. 

2. Talk to your professors and show them what type of student your are. 

Put in the extra effort into studying for your tests and completing your projects. Spend that extra time in creating your presentation and attempting to have the best results for the project possible. Let me tell you professors recognize this and when they need someone to help with their research they may turn to you. I had a couple of professors approach me during my senior year offering me a job working for them along with PAYING FOR MY MASTERS DEGREE. I know this may not be true for some majors but for some it is. 

3. Learn to read PDFs on your computer. 

I didn’t buy a college text book in 4 of the 5 years I was in college (sophomore year throughout my masters) because I either found PDFs online or was given them by other students (this is where networking and going out of your way to help others comes back around). The last book I bought was a chemistry book and the only reason I bought that was because I had to have the online access code (such a rip off). Some of the books were the previous edition but the information in them was still 95% the same. The only thing that was altered was the example and homework problems. 

4. Make a study guide that summarizes all of the important topics with worked out example problems for every course relative to your major. 

Right before every test I made a short summary guide of every major topic that would be on that test along with a few worked out examples. Many of my courses called for knowledge from a previous course and I used this study guide to quickly/ easily remember those topics. I also used this guide to study for my job interviews. You will be thankful for this when the person interviewing you makes you solve problems on the white board 

5. Find out where your department staff is and always be friendly with them. 

Over the first two years I got to know the office staff of my department and every time they had leftover food from meetings they would let me know. I got a free lunch one to three times a week from this. 


I hope this helps you out some and if you would like me to further explain just let me know!


Edit: Many people are asking me through on and commenting about how to network. I was/am an extremely introverted person that enjoys being alone at times. To show how introverted I am here is a story: I didn’t like talking to people so much that in my first semester I would eat my lunch in my truck. Well one day a guy from my calculus class saw me and came to my truck and started talking to me. The day after he found me again and did the same thing. The third day I park in the parking lot across campus so I could eat lunch alone again. Fast forward 5 years and I actually have a great job because of this guy.

So here is how I did it.  At the start of my sophomore year I started small by sitting in the front row next to people that were actually engaged in the class and I would ask them how their weekend was or how their other classes were going. After I got to know them the first couple of weeks I would ask them if they would like to stay after to work on the homework or study for the test. Then I would invite them to go to lunch or dinner. I found a common interest with some of them and did that with them. This is a long story but in summary one guy and I played ping pong in the rec every Tuesday my junior year.  He became one of my best college friends and we now talk every week even though he is 10 states away. Also when you are in group projects pull you weight and step up. People remember this and will want to work with you again. This is how I began to network. I hope this helps some.",86,1184,55.288858883943824,college
I slept through an exam.,"Exam was 8-9:30. Woke up at 9:10 and was like hmm wtf why’s it so bright outside? Looked at my clock and my heart sank. 

F. 

Edit: he let me retake the test. I didn’t do so great but st least it’s better than a 0. ",98,1170,224.3654329580179,college
"Hey, guys, use a railing.","You know that weird dream sensation where you're in and out of sleep, and you feel like you're falling then jerk awake when you land? Well, that happened to me this morning at 5 am, but I wasnt dreaming, and I woke up halfway between the mattress  and when I hit the floor. 

For reference, my bed is lofted more than 6 feet off the ground. I'm honestly lucky to be alive, and only sustaining ""minor"" injuries at that. Somehow I managed to land in one small area between multiple dangerous corners like my fridge and desk, and I didnt land on my head, but on my knees. My left knee took the full force of a 6 foot drop. It was busted open, and I believe I may have minor fractures in both knees. 

Moral of the story, please for the love of god use a rail; I know it's rare, so rare that the police officer that arrived at my dorm (after I called the police because I couldnt extend my legs) told me I was the first one he'd seen do this in his 35 years on campus. Be safe, take care of yourself, and please use a rail.",46,1168,39.92052555061049,college
Literally all college bookstores HAHA,,53,1149,401.92152092098087,college
College gave out my grades to parents without my permission?,"My university gave my parents my GPA and grades. They do not have access to my online grade portal, they do not have access to anything. I in fact have it set in my student portal so they do not have permission for ANYTHING, and I made sure of that. There were a lot of reasons for this that I won’t go into, but my stuff was on absolute lockdown and I made sure of that.

Just a few minutes ago I got a call from my mom asking about my grades last semester, and she went on to name each letter grade I got along with my GPA. She got this from the director of a VERY large department. Like, the actual title in hand, appointed bonafide director of this MAJOR university department, just casually breached my confidentiality like that.

Obviously nothing I can do about it now since the cats out of the bag regarding my GPA but what can I do about filing a complaint etc? Any sort of precedent for stuff like this?",126,1147,73.17192601357345,college
Has college been easier/more fun than highschool?,"I feel like college has been a 10x life improvement over highschool, which might be an unpopular opinion. I see a lot of people in my classes complain a lot.

I feel like I have much more time, much more freedom, much more control over what I want to do and who I want to become/discipline, and for some reason not really depressed anymore.

I enjoy my major classes (just one gen ed left), I have a friend or at least good acquaintances in most classes, and I just feel happier in general. I don't feel shit everyday like I did in HS

also, fuck waking up at 6am, when marching band kept you till like 10pm

edit: seems pretty split even",227,1137,23.53017832838827,college
Another Shooting at a Major University,"Late this afternoon an active shooter was present on campus at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. 4 are injured, 2 have died. The shooter is said to be a student. 

Please please please be safe out there. This is getting too real. This has to stop. 

[News Article](https://www.charlottestories.com/shots-fired-on-campus-of-uncc-university-tells-students-to-run-hide-fight/)",146,1137,169.99464592098087,college
Why was high school so awful?,"Looking back on high school, I spent 6 hours a day, 5 days a week at school. That's equivalent to 30 units in college. Full time in college is 12. You spend way less time in college and honestly it's easier at least for me. There are way more unspoken social norms at high school, and everyone was so much more judgemental. Anyone else feel college is easier for them and so much less of a hassle than high school? I feel like so many complain about college but don't remember how terrible high school was.",211,1135,169.0745880506105,college
"Just a reminder. Even though you are taking your finals, don't forget to evaluate your professors as well.","Title says the point.

Semester is ending and you're about to move on and forget your current professors.  Somebody else still needs to take the course you you just finished.  Pass on what you learned.  

Use your school's feedback surveys (most schools push them or even require them). Use RateMyProfessor.  Just share your experience.  Did the professor torture you by treating their 3 credit humanities course like it was a 6 credit monster worth 30 hours per week?  Was you Bio professor awesome and deserves recognition?  


This matters.  When I go to register for classes, I check my professors ratings.  If there are 3 or less ratings, then it's useless to me.  I would rather take a 3.9 professor with 40 reviews than a 5.0 with 1 review.  You should all be checking these and leaving feedback afterwards. If you aren't reading any sort of reviews prior to registering, it's kinda your own fault when you are stuck with the most difficult professor on campus. 

There.  Said my peace.  Do whatever you want.  We're all adults. Most of us at least.  ",67,1132,318.90613897653645,college
I'm being falsely accused of academic misconduct but I have no proof that I'm innocent,"My roommate and I are in the same year and major so naturally we have a few classes together. Last week we had a computer science assignment due that we both forgot about until he looked at the course page and realized it was due at 11:59 which was in half in hour. We both busted our laptops out and wrote the code as fast as possible and finished around the same time... 12:01. frantic and not wanted to get stuck with a zero we both sent separate emails to our professor with the files attached. The fact that we did this assignment so quickly is an important detail to me because it means there is no way we could have worked together and still get done so fast. 

Fast forward to today, about a week later. This morning she replied to the email finally and asked us to come her at her office hours. my roommate had a class so I went alone. My professor accused me of plagiarism citing that our code was too similar, we made the same mistakes, and we both tried to turn them in late, around the same time. I tried fighting for my case but of course she was very dismissive and at one point laughed at me. She tried getting me to sign off on a paper that would be sent to the office of student conduct but I refused and wanted to consider my options before admitting to something I didn't do, so I have to go to her office hours again on Monday. and that brings us to right now. I don't know how to prove that I didn't cheat and I'm worried about suffering consequences that I don't deserve. Any advice would be much appreciated right now.

EDIT: thanks for the advice everyone. I’m currently writing an email to the dean where I present the story, refute her points, and highlight the fact that she was disrespectful towards me.",89,1126,22.064379717277156,college
I’m about to answer every one of your questions,"• Talk to your professor

• Talk to your guidance counselor / academic advisor

• Talk to your parents

• Talk to a therapist

• Talk to Google

90% of the questions we get on this sub can be answered by following any of the points I just listed.

Obviously we are here to help, but we don’t know everything about your current situation. Most of us are college students just like you. But the people I just listed? It’s their job to help you.
",95,1117,322.3329213839438,college
Did anyone end up skipping class entirely because you were over 30 mins late to class?,,147,1104,219.31227323579566,college
4 Finals. All ‘A’s.,"I have never in my life done this good at school, but my goodness. I took 4 finals today and got an ‘A’ on every single one of them, potentially getting ‘A’s for the whole semester! This like the top of the world for me right now, but I can only imagine what it is like to graduate!!",85,1098,304.19924082838827,college
Anyone get anxiety from seeing others do well effortlessly?,It feels weird to see other people do well effortlessly or with very minimum effort while I struggle and failed here and there. What should I do to cope with this?,92,1089,16.756000087647525,college
Sum up college,,24,1067,343.8891250876475,college
I really needed this and wanted to share it in case anybody else does too,,40,1050,401.0010000876475,college
"Posted in different sub. ""A college professor's advice""",,44,1027,960.9390672172772,college
Do you crave breaks during the semester and want class during breaks?,"So finals just finished and I am waiting for my grades to come in. I feel confident in my finals, nothing too shocking and come to realize I am going home and getting a break. And I don't want it to come, I want to continue classes and learning rather than being bored at home and doing nothing besides working. 

All through the semester, I wanted to not have anything and be on break to relax but right now I want to go to class and do work.

Am I alone in this feeling? ",84,998,308.00758573579566,college
Strange for mom to sit in class?,"Hello /r/college,

My father passed away last Friday and it has been really hard on me. On top of already suffering from PTSD, it's definitely a really difficult time for me to get through. My mother offered to sit in class with me as support. Not chatting or anything, but her being near is the only time that I feel comfort. It feels like the only way I'll be able to get through the first few weeks of the semester without withdrawing.

Is it strange that I want this? The professors I have emailed so far seem to be fine with it. But I get the idea that people are probably going to look at me negatively.

Best wishes.


edit

I appreciate all the feedback guys. I have already emailed all of the professors and got the go ahead. I just wanted to know what others thought about it. I'm a very anxious person.",80,986,52.14683342098086,college
My dorm room featuring my rabbit.,,99,983,774.0389630506105,college
Just a few things to consider while on break...,"\- REST DAMMIT. You need to actually sleep and take care of yourself. You were looking forward to this time, so you better take advantage of it. I know, you are only home for a limited time and you want to see all your friends. That's cool. But take some small time to actually take care of yourself.

\- If you are spending it at home, then please spend some time hanging out with your parents and family. If you got them nearby, go see your grandparents. Looking back, I wish I would have just spent a bit more time with my mom when I was home.

\- Check your grades. Celebrate, cry, ponder, but take a moment to really look at where you are and see if you are doing as you expect. Not liking your classes? Still want to major in that? Is this your 3rd time taking a course? Sit down and really evaluate where you are, and if you are taking the right steps to get to where you think you want to go.

\- Check on your funds. Those of you that are lucky to have your parents pay for your education, please do not take it for granted. If you know you are going to be short for the next semester, look at job options, loans, and any possible scholarships. Mapping out how much you are going to owe before you start can put you in a better position.

\- If you are considering not going back to school, like you are for sure not going back, TELL SOMEONE. You do not need a big fat bill showing up on your doorstep because you failed to withdraw the correct way. Tell admissions, tell a family member, and talk to someone. Do not assume that this will be taken care of.

\- If you are feeling down over break, find someone to talk to. Yes, it is okay to text a friend and say ""Hey, if you got a minute to talk or hang, I would really appreciate it. I am not doing well right now."" Reach out to people. Talk it out. Do not bottle things up. Help is out there.

\- If your graduation is in the upcoming year, or you know you are going to be doing a lot of interviews soon, make sure you got a professional sounding email and an updated resume.

&#x200B;

Enjoy the rest of your break!",29,971,294.2640093469068,college
Have you ever studied really hard for an exam then proceeded to forget everything when you are handed the exam paper?,"So that happened to me today, I studied everything that I could possibly encounter in the exam and I was quite confident that I would do well, so here I am in the exam room I look at the questions and nothing, I couldn’t seem to link the questions to the answers in my head, it was so damn confusing because I have never been in that spot before, anyone knows what could’ve caused that?",121,968,197.45035193949937,college
Anyone else tired of waiting for college to start?,"I move into my dorm in just 6 days and my classes start only 2 days after that, but it feels like I've got to wait an eternity. I'm currently sitting in bed and can't sleep because I'm just too excited to experience what college has to offer. I feel like a kid on Christmas eve, that's the best way I can describe it. Anyone else feel this way, or am I just being naive and overly hopeful?",152,967,58.60893990246234,college
Is eating meals alone considered weird like it is in high school?,"I sat alone at lunch for just about all of high school. Yes it's as shitty as you think it is if not worse.

While I don't anticipate eating meals alone all the time, by god I hope to make some friends, is all the lunch room anxiety still a thing in college? I actually prefer to eat breakfast alone every day, and sometimes dinner or lunch too depending on how busy I am. Is this common among college students?",165,956,45.93777092098086,college
"So I got accepted into college, so I was just wondering if anyone could give me any advice for when I start in the fall?",,256,955,249.6910579580179,college
"Decided to be one of ""those kids"" and asked for grade rounding. Looks like the college gods were on my side!",,79,940,665.3166135135735,college
I think I’ll be ready for my last exam today. Wish me luck..,,63,939,307.2243334209809,college
"Besides the extremely unfair cost of tuition, what aspect of college do you dislike the most?","For me, it's either the useless required courses that are not related to our majors or the lack of focus on teaching by professors.



At my school, a lot of teaching is done by part-time adjunct professors.  They are not industry professionals looking to teach the next generation of engineers, but mostly people working this job and applying for tenured track positions.  




A lot of the teaching is pretty generic, from information you can easily google, and read right off the powerpoint.  My largest criticism is that none of the professors try connecting the material to modern research, so the entire course feels like reading a bunch of wikipedia articles.  It makes it hard to network with tenured professors for research opportunities since they don't teach that many classes except for less than a handful of upper level electives.",475,943,24.40939129135123,college
Anybody else feel like this time of the year is the worst?,"For some reason, I absolutely hate the January-March stretch of every school year. It’s cold and bleak, classes are hard, no major holidays, stuck until spring break, etc. Upside is it makes spring feel so much more fulfilling.",92,938,250.84576860616605,college
I emailed my professor letting her know how much I enjoyed her class and this was the response I got,,45,938,1036.0577709209808,college
Today my son graduated from Ohio University,"Can I just share for a moment? He didn't graduate with huge honors. Or any. Other than graduating. It's a new chapter for him. I just wanted to give a whoop whoop. They had great speakers. And it's over. And now...... I get some monthly payments back YAAAAY!

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

https://i.redd.it/jvkrunyx8dw21.jpg",51,941,166.01442601357346,college
College Regrets,"Please read everything.

My biggest regret in life is cheating. I have cheated in every class in college. My mind was too preoccupied with wanting to finish school in 4 years, so I piled on classes every semester. I didnt study. I learned nothing. I would go into class with a game plan to cheat on exams. 

I majored in accounting, from my Accounting I class to the upper level bachelors classes, I cheated. I regret that so much. I have such little accounting knowledge. At work, my boss started asking me elementary accounting questions and I couldn't answer him. I was so embarrassed and I knew then that he regretted hiring me. 

I am typing this with embarrassment. I beg you to not cheat in college. I faked my way through everything. In 2 months I am starting a new job with a big company and I am so nervous. I don't have the knowledge to to the job, just the degree. 

&#x200B;

Cheating gets you no where in life. In the end, I only cheated myself. ",109,937,401.0170533283883,college
A new report finds that around half of all college students fear running out of food before having the money to buy more,,72,929,134.1685579580179,college
What are some college life hacks?,I’m going to college in 2 weeks and want some tips. Thanks guys.,281,933,72.32845379135122,college
"Made me laugh; but yes Adel, everyone feels it.",,62,923,631.9488241617216,college
"With all the posts about people getting all A's this semester, this is an appreciation for everyone who worked their asses off and still failed. Don't give up.",,69,915,303.05236582838825,college
Do you ever feel weird when you have more free time than usual?,"Just spent Friday evening up to this point on Monday morning relaxing. Is this abnormal to do?

EDIT: A flood of final projects and essays are coming for me this week :(
",84,908,353.3718681432031,college
What are some things that I should take advantage of while I’m in college that I can’t do once I have a job and am out “in the real world”?,I’m entering my senior year of college and I want to make sure to experience as much as I can in this stage of my life.,81,893,61.45156721727716,college
... How does college work?,"Perhaps this is better suited for /r/NoStupidQuestions , because seeing my peers all seemingly knowing exactly what they're doing has me terrified.

I'm a high school student, in my second semester of my junior year. I have a few universities in mind, but.... I just don't know what I'm doing, and it's leaving me very unsettled and insecure.

Once I apply for college, how do student loans work? Do I take multiple student loans for multiple years? Do I take one big student loan? When do I search for / apply for scholarships? I'm planning on getting a Master's degree (computer science). Is there a separate loan for that?

Once I finish my bachelor's degree and start working on a Master's, do I work at a job concurrently as I study for my Master's? Is a Master's like a bachelor's, where you go to classes (mostly) every day, or is it something different? Is my notion of how a bachelor's degree is obtained even correct?

Back to student loans, when do you have to start paying? What happens if you miss a payment? 

Thanks for the help. I have looked for some type of... ""College tutorial"" but I can't seem to find one, and frankly, I'm terrified.",80,893,254.65584962468455,college
Ever have a class where the amount of work they ask you to put in assignments is paired with a frustratingly laughable point value?,"I'm currently taking a class right now that requires a lot of work for very little value. I'm writing entire papers with multiple pages (required) for a measly five points each. 

All it is doing is burning my classmates out because we write four papers a week for this class. Most of us are literally putting 75% filler in the papers at this point.",68,886,181.20287508764753,college
I’m 21 years old and still like looking at all the kiddy back to school stuff,I’m going to be a Junior this fall and I still enjoy going to target and Walmart and looking through all the back to school displays with the silly unicorn folders and cookie shaped lunchboxes (ok actually I bought a cookie lunchbox for my freshman year of college) and dinosaur notebooks. Guess it’s just a thing I’ll never outgrow lmao. Can any of you guys relate?,83,886,86.72635888394383,college
Anyone ever get a hotel room just to be alone for a minute?,I go to a very big university and for financial reasons I live with five other people in a house. Now some of my housemates are my friends and some are just housemates but either way sometimes I just really want to be alone. I have a roommate so I can’t really just go into my room and be alone. And living with that many people means there’s never more than fifteen minutes when I’m home alone. I’m thinking of honestly just getting a one night hotel stay to recharge and be completely alone for even just like 12 hours.,67,875,25.660363513573454,college
You know I always suspected college would be the death of me I just never expected it to be this literal,,69,873,231.32456490246236,college
Check this out if you're struggling with choosing a major,,55,869,651.8914399024624,college
"Early semester reminder: Stop having ""zero"" days","This borrows a quote from [ryans01](https://www.reddit.com/r/getdisciplined/comments/1q96b5/i_just_dont_care_about_myself/cdah4af/) but the idea has existed for much longer than that.

You're probably a couple weeks into the semester and you may be falling into the early semester trap. You find yourself in a period of time thinking ""Wow, I have no homework this weekend"" or ""Once I turn this in on Wednesday I'm free."" 

It's an illusion. In reality, you have more work to do; it's just not due until later.

Spend your free days getting started on that work. Even if just for a few hours. Don't have any more days of non-productivity. And by working, I mean really working. Not just staring at a textbook to kill an hour or going to class like you should already be doing, but actually spending Friday making headway on an assignment that's not due until next Wednesday, or getting caught up in a class where you know you're behind.

I give this advice for 3 reasons. 

\#1, A lot of college students (including myself for many years) miss points on assignments because they underestimate how much time it will take to complete. That's the dumbest reason ever to lose points. You're just hurting yourself for no reason.

\#2, Most students' schedules have a natural ebb and flow: crazy amounts of stress before deadlines, and free time elsewhere. It's not balanced nor healthy. It's the reason some students can't take the pressure when it really builds up. Delegate your work more evenly and you'll still have the ability to take time off and relax, just with less stress hanging over your head.

\#3, It builds discipline. You have to teach yourself to work even when you don't want to. That's the difference between discipline and motivation. Motivation is nice, but it won't last you all year long. Discipline will. 

I hope this is read by at least one person who can apply this to their situation. It will change your grades, your time management skills, and your relationship with your work.",30,874,392.83360425431414,college
Remember to be grateful you get to go to college.,"I know it's kind of pop culture to complain about college, complain about finals, and even complain about school in general. 

But remember to acknowledge how lucky you are to be able to go to college to forward your thinking. The fact that so many of our generation go to college may seem bleak for job security, but remember how amazing it is that we are moving towards an educated society! 

I think back to every day people in the 1800's. There's a meme about a doctor telling someone they have ghost in their blood and to do cocaine. I know it's a joke, but that probably would have made sense to the average every day Joe in that time period. But the forwarding and plethora of educated people has eliminated many of these false understandings. (ex. What causes illness and how to cure it. Technological advancements, etc.)

Education also opens doors. I've met a few special individuals. One of which started out as just a poor black kid from a village in Africa. Through a Christian organization sponsoring him he was able to grow up healthy and educated, and eventually got to go to college. He ended up getting his masters in engineering. Now that poor village black kid makes a lot more money than I probably will and he used that money to help his family village and the Christian organization.

Just remember to pay thanks to the people who give us the privilege to go to college. Try to not take it for granted.

Edit: I deleted the part about people joking about suicide because some people were offended. College puts a tremendous toll on the mind. I know personally from my struggle with anxiety and panic attacks and some past struggles with depression. Please seek assistance if you are suffering.",99,869,534.3698079580179,college
Going to college isn't just about classes.,"For me, it is an opportunity to live in a safer community and healthier residence. A chance to work with a trainer to get into shape. A time for me to eat better and get financially squared away. It's also a place where I can develop friendships and reunite with old friends. In all, college is a way for me to have a better quality of life while gaining new skills and credentials in a profession more accommodating to my disabilities. ",43,870,479.0816829580179,college
"Is Your Major ""Worth It""?",,218,865,603.197493143203,college
Roommate refuses to lock the dorm door,"My roommate REFUSES to lock our dorm door, I’m a band member and own multiple instruments, an expensive computer, monitor, iPad and more. The other day I opened my door to find a person I had never seen before standing in the middle of my room, I said “hey man!” And the rando said “hey!” And bolted past me, out the door and down the hallway to the elevators. I told my roommate about this and he just says “he probably just had the wrong room” I have confronted my roommate 3 or 4 times and I told him he has to lock the door, today over snapchat this was his word for word message he sent “Dude I’ve already been here a year and me and my buddies know everyone on this floor nothings getting stolen bud. You can lock it that’s fine but I’m not going to” this got me absolutely fuming, I feel like I’m about to explode and I feel the moment he enters the room I’m going to go berserk. The RA has been gone for the past couple days including today so I have nobody to turn to. Any tips? On both calming me down and getting him to lock the door, I don’t feel like having to pay what would be equal to another year of college if my instruments get stolen, not to mention the sentimental value of them from the generations before me that passed them down.

Edit: is there anyway to get him kicked out of my room? If it helps, A few days I found his secret stash of Busch Light, and he vapes like crazy when I’m not around, when I go into the room from a day full of classes, it reeks like burning sugar.

Edit: I do have a description of the random who was in my room before and his shirt had a last name on the back I’ll definitely bring that up with my RA

Edit: I gotta get to sleep and it’s nearly 1:00, I got a class at 9:00, I’ll save the sleep deprivation for exams later in the year, thanks for the sound tips, and the funny things you guys are saying in the comments. you guys rock..... and roll. See y’all in the morning.

Update: I have set an appointment with the RD today at noon, it is currently 10:00. At first they said he wasn’t available today, until I brought up that it was a security issue. They said it needs to get resolved immediately so they are making an exception. Wish me luck on making my case, I’ll update you guys on what happens

Update: my RD said that I need to file a police report and have the police talk to my roommate directly, also they are going to expedite the moving process and get him out of my room within a week, also spotted my RA at lunch and he said he is going to take care of it immediately.

Update: Police said they are going to talk to the RD to set up a talk to make sure he locks the door, in the meantime while they get the move paper work finalized. I don’t think he is going to be very happy about the police showing up at our door, but that’s the price you pay when you don’t have respect for others.

GUYS, FINAL UPDATE: My roommate is moving out tomorrow, officially, 1 floor down. I am ecstatic thanks for all of your guys’ help!",168,867,38.874981569129005,college
Got a 46/100 on my first exam that's related to my major..is it time to panic a little?,"Title pretty much says it all. I got a 46/100 on a biology exam. I didn't study as much as I needed to and I definitely need to change that because I don't want to feel this way again, but what else can I do to pull the grade up before the end of the semester?

Edit: this is blowing up WAY more than I thought it would, so thankyou. And just to be clear I didn't come here looking for any sort of sympathy, I was just curious as to what advice others could give who knows what it's like to be in this position. I know that the only person that can pull the grade up is me and that I'll have to work for it which I am more than capable and more than ready to do. Im a strong believer in failure being the greatest teacher. Failing is just another opportunity to learn from an experience to ensure that it doesn't happen again and I fully intend on applying that to my current situation. Thankyou to everyone that's seen this post and has commented.",138,860,17.39049082838827,college
Someone in my College made a petition to suspend everyone who has been accused of sexual misconduct,"A girl in our second year accused someone, but the legal system will take 6 months. So she started this petition, with the goal of getting everyone accused suspended until a verdict is reached. It seems mainly geared towards this one guy, but the title and text still call for all suspects to be suspended.


In the groupchat of my year people are angry, calling for suspension even though no proof has been shown yet. People seem to have done away with the principle of 'innocent until proven guilty'. I want to support victims, but this just seems crazy!


On top of that, one of my best friends had also been falsely accused by a different girl (weeks before). He is having a breakdown, his depression making a swift comeback because of the accusation. I truly believe he is innocent, they hooked up multiple times, she was sober and they even showered together. But she had a boyfriend, as he found out later, so possibly she didn't want to own up to it. He has moved out of our building already on request on the uni, but still studies with us.


What can I do to ensure people aren't getting suspended based on accusations alone? Is a petition like this even legal? I am personally rather upset by the amount of ire this has elicited. When I defended maybe not punishing someone without evidence I got some angry comments thrown my way.

___


EDIT: I want to put this into perspective, there is no physical protests or anything going on, just discussions in the groupchat. However, the petition now has 681 signatures. I assume most of them are just out of solidarity, but the title of the petition is ''MY UNIVERSITY to Suspend Suspects of Sexual Crimes from Education'' so it isn't exactly covert in its intentions. It is only a petition, but still.


There are people speaking out against this luckily, so it isn't as bad as it could be.",129,861,215.38928712468459,college
Best tip when moving clothes in/out of your dorm,,39,851,443.2094375876475,college
Alcohol - thoughts on staying alive,"In the freshman question megathread, a redditor asked what I found to be a disturbing yet common question:

>Got drunk for the first time on day 2, spent the rest of the night (read: right now) vomiting my brains out  
>  
>How do I like, not do this next time  
>  
>I suppose the obvious answer is ""just don't drink as much"" but now that that's covered I'm open to other ideas

Below is my answer to that redditor.  Please add any safety tips that you have regarding responsible use of alcohol.

>Welcome to your first (and hopefully only) bout of alcohol poisoning. That shit is deadly.  
>  
>**DO NOT DRINK SO MUCH.**  
>  
>First of all, if you're underage, don't drink. I have to say that, it's a sub rule to not engage in or advocate for illegal behavior.  
>  
>Second of all, assuming you are of age, control your consumption. That means a few things:  
>  
>1. Know how many drinks are in your cup. A filled 16 oz solo cup is 1.25 beers, 4 wines, and a deathsentence of liquor.  
>  
>2. Know that your body can only process 1 drink per hour. A drink is a beer, a glass of wine, or an ounce of liquor. *Pace yourself.*  
>  
>3. Keep track of how many drinks you've had and over what period of time. Look at your phone when you start drinking, else you'll have no idea when you started. Look at it every time you get a new drink, else you'll have no idea how much time has gone by. *Pace yourself.* **IF YOU CAN'T REMEMBER HOW MANY DRINKS YOU'VE HAD, YOU'VE HAD TOO MANY AND IT'S TIME TO STOP.**  
>  
>4. The feeling of inebriation is, in my experience, a delayed effect. By the time you feel buzzed, if you're still drinking, you're going to get drunk. By the time you get drunk, if you're still drinking, you're going to get sick. *Pace yourself.*  
>  
>5. When you've had enough, and someone offers you another, for the love of God **SAY NO THANK YOU**. If you have to walk away from a game of beer pong, so be it. *Pace yourself.*  
>  
>2,000 college students will probably die from alcohol this year. That's twice as many people as get shot dead by police every year. This is no fucking joke. Take care of yourselves.",167,858,59.4020417543142,college
Just graduated college and started a full time job. I miss college,"I am 22 years old, graduated college in May, and started a full time job a month ago. I have been really down about it. I feel like I have no freedom anymore with my job and all I do is work. It sickens me to think that I have to work the rest of my life now. How do people do it? Every day I think of an alternate way to make money besides the traditional job. I miss all my friends and how life was in college.  All I do now is sit at a desk for 8 hours. What kind of life is that? What do others do right out of college and how are you feeling?",114,857,56.127817217277155,college
It’s been over two weeks and I still don’t know anyone at my school,"I haven’t made one friend yet. I feel so alone. I go to a “party school” and everyone else seems to have a ton of friends and go out a lot, and I’m alone in my dorm all the time. I want to have people to hang out with and talk to and have a good college experience but for some reason it just seems impossible. It’s like everyone else on campus already has friends and is out having fun tonight and I’m here, typing this. Even though I’m on a sports team none of my teammates talk to me and I’m definitely not close with any of them. I’m also busy for most of the day with work and classes so I probably can’t join any other clubs or anything, I’ll probably try to though. I feel judged all the time when I’m eating alone at the dining hall while everyone else is with a friend group or when I’m walking around campus alone or doing literally everything else alone. My family has already made fun of me for not having made any friends yet too. I’m scared I’m never going to make any friends and I’m just going to be a hermit for the rest of my life. What can I do? How do I stop being so alone?",110,845,47.83393990246233,college
PSA to all students (specifically freshman),"STOP PACKING YOUR STUFF EARLY!

It's extremely rude to start shuffling papers, zipping up your bags, and chatting to your neighbor with 5-10 minutes left of class while the prof is still talking. Especially when it's a big lecture hall, it's very hard to hear for students around you.

I say specifically freshman because I'm in 3rd year and people still do it in my programs, but it's the odd couple first year classes I have that are the worst.

Just wait till the end of class. If you are really in a hurry then arrange yourself so that when the prof is finished speaking, it's easy to pack your things and leave.

Edit: If you must leave early to not be late for your next class then so be it. But have some sort of exit strategy, keep your bag unzipped till you leave the classroom, sit as close to a door as possible, generally don't make a ruckus. My post was more aimed at the cumulative effect of the whole class who think packing up and chatting before the prof is finished is acceptable. The odd few people who must leave early can very well do so in manner that doesn't disrupt anyone and that is totally fine.",86,848,274.12446073579565,college
Professor was late to a final and said it was our fault,"Hey I’m not sure where to post this but I’m kind of at a lost for what to do. It’s currently finals week as many of you know and I have been studying my ass off. Today I had a midterm for my psych class that was set to be at 3:30pm, I know this because on the online finals schedule that every professor follows it stated 3:30pm was the time of the final. So me along with a majority of my classmates show up at 3:30 and waited but my professor failed to show. We spoke to the head of the department and they informed us that if the teacher does not show in the next 30 minutes then we were legally(?) exempt from the exam. Every person that showed up signed their name on a piece of loose leaf as proof of their attendance, we then brought the paper to the head of the department to get it signed. We emailed the teacher a picture of the attendance sheet and a small paragraph explaining that we showed and she failed to show up on time so we were directed to leave. Anyways, 4:30 rolls around and we get an email from the professor saying that the exam was actually at 4:30 and she stated this in class last week and since we were not there for the exam we would all have to reschedule it and take it with a proctor on another day. Now this is where I’m at a loss because there was no follow up email or anything other then her ALLEGEDLY (i’m emphasizing this because if she stated it I’m sure no one would of showed up at 3:30)  stating last week in class that it was moved to 4:30. Is this something that is allowed??? Correct me if I’m wrong but I think this is extremely unfair to everyone. Does anyone have any experience with this or know of what I should do?? 

Update: I couldn’t make it to the school because something came up (I had no final scheduled for today so my mom asked me to go with her to the doctor). However I did email the dean about the situation as well as my professor asking when I could reschedule the test because at this point fuck it I’m just going to take it and I know I’ll get a good grade on it anyways because I’ve studied a hell of a lot. Anyways, back to the stuff you guys care about- no one has responded to my emails. I sent both emails out at around 9am and I’m still waiting to hear back. Seems like I’m not much of a priority 🤷🏻‍♀️

New update: my professor emailed me back and my new test date is Monday at 11. I also still haven’t heard back from anyone else so that’s disappointing. ",137,843,309.0439977728327,college
Anyone feel lonely in college?,,176,849,182.38841906912901,college
Is anyone elses favorite thing a canceled class email?,,129,827,199.79964592098085,college
How to Make Friends in College/Will I make Friends in College?,"So the influx of posts started kind of early this year. The most common topic that has ever been on our subreddit surrounds making friends in college. I wrote up this little guide in hopes it will help some of you. If anyone else has suggestions- please leave them down in the comments below. 


**All posts related to making friends in college will be removed**

Instead- redirect users here or if you have a question post it here. 

**Where did the Back to School Megathread go?**

Is it still [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/92qjfg/back_to_school_megathread/) but I unstickied it because I think this thread is more important. I will add automod config to try to redirect users to this thread if they make posts about making friends and hope it will help much more with subreddit management

----

**FAQ About Friends in College**


**What should I do when I arrive on college to meet people**

Okay so the first week on campus- especially in the dorms- there is a bit of magic in the air. Everyone is nervous and while some people may have friends from highschool or from their childhood- pretty much everyone is looking to make friends. Take advantage of this!!!!

* Be friendly and talk with people on your floor and in your building. Introduce yourself. Say your major, where you're from, what hobbies you have, etc. Its all small-talk but later on when you see them in the hall it will be easier to strike up conversation 

* Take Initiative. Instead of just saying hi to people- invite some people out to dinner. Or be that one person that organizes dinner with the entire floor (its not weird. Its college. Just fucking do it). If large groups scare you- find a few friendly faces on your floor and ask if they're up for dinner- or going to that cool, definitely not lame freshman event on campus. Or ask if someone wants to go watch the opening football game with you. Or ask if they just want to explore campus. It may be awkward asking people you don't know- but it will be worth it as the friendships grow stronger. 

* Keep your door open. Even if you don't take initiative other people probably will. But if you stay locked up in your room all day then no one will know you're there and you will feel left out. Keep the door open and I promise you there's a good chance you'll just get invited places. Even if you keep your door open don't just stay in your room staring at the wall. Go to the common areas- if you see people socializing just go them. Its not awkward. Its college. Just walk up and say ""Hi I'm chevy- where are you guys from"" or literally anything no one cares. You might meet some cool people, you might not. Might make some friends this way, might not. Still worth a shot. I made some of my friends in college the first week by just randomly talking about anime and CS with strangers- anything can happen. 

* Always say yes. If someone asks you to go to some random book event in the campus center SAY YES. When you start saying no and stop saying yes people will stop asking you to go places. You know all those lame sounding events in the dorms? Yeah no one really goes to them because they care about face painting. They go to meet people. Put yourself out there and don't reject opportunities to meet people

**What if I go to a commuter campus, community college, or live off campus?**

Not to worry my friend. Remember there are people in your shoes too and they want to make friends as well. 

The main advice I would give for people in this situation is to try and stay on campus as much as you can. If you are a commuter student- don't just head home after class. Stay on campus! Engage in any club activities and set your study schedule around these activities. Or get a job on campus. Or just study at the library on campus or wherever! Its hard to make friends when you're never at school. 

Also try talking to a lot of people in your classes. Obviously don't disrupt actual class time- but asking people in your classes if they want to study together or even just saying hi can start friendships. Don't be shy! 

**Its after the first week of school and I still have no friends. What can I do?** 

There are many things you can do! Here are some suggestions: 

* Talk to people in classes. Since class is well underway- you can talk to people in class about current assignments, upcoming assignments, upcoming tests, etc. Its not weird- its college. People are nice! If it is farther in the semester you can ask someone if they want to work on an assignment together or study together. I've never been told no when I asked someone- you typically learn better when you work together anyways!!

* Join a club on campus. Its easier to meet people when you share a common interest- and if you join the hiking club because you like hiking then surely you'll meet people there who also like hiking. Now you have a conversation topic of ""hiking"" you can talk to them about. Yay! If you have no interests you can always just join a club related to your major or career goals and socialize with people there (but if you join the club for your major you can't use the famous 'what's your major' question when first meeting someone). You can also join clubs if you have no knowledge of them and are potentially looking at a new hobby. 
In any case- clubs typically advertise to (mainly) freshmen at the start of each semester- so if your school has an area where the clubs set up little information booths like my school did- just go and talk to some members and get a vibe for the club. If the people seem cool- just join and hope for the best! 


* Get a job on campus. I know, it sounds crazy. But a lot of jobs in college are social and I know I personally made a lot of friends through my job. Even the people working in the dishroom at the dining halls in my school typically talk to each other and work shifts with each other frequently- so its a great way to meet coworkers. And there's never a chance you'll run out of things to talk about at your job because worst case scenario just complain about how working sucks and everyone will agree with you! Win-win. 

* If you live in a dorm: Talk to people!!! A lot of freshmen take the same classes. If you see someone in a study lounge (or similar) and they are working on an assignment for your class- there's no harm in asking them if they want to study with you! Or if you recognize someone in your building from one of your classes you can literally just be like ""Oh hey aren't you in Accounting 101?"". Then you can progress the conversation into asking them if they want to work on class stuff together- and if they live in the same building it'd be super easy to do so!


* Partake in random activities! At my school a lot of people would play pool/ping pong in the dorms and a lot of people would just ask to play or jump in and I got to meet some people that way. Or people play Frisbee outside, or random other games. Its not weird to ask someone if you can play- I promise you. Worst they can say is no- best they can say is yes and you end up with new friends (and have a cool game to play with them too!). 


* Go to parties/other social events. You don't have to drink/smoke/do anything you don't like. Parties have lots of people and its a very social setting- so obviously the potential to meet people there is possible. Even if you're awkward or introverted- plenty of people like that go to parties too. There are also just random events happening daily on campus- all of them can be good ways to find people to talk to!

**I am a sophomore/junior/senior/ and have no friends can I still make friends?** 

Of course. People are looking to make friends no matter what year they are. I made new friends every year I attended college- people do not just stick with who they met freshman year. 

**I don't like my friends, what do I do? Am I stuck with them?**
No, Silly. You can always get new friends. If you don't like your current friendgroup- make sure you don't spend all your time with them. Try to branch out by meeting new people in classes, joining a club, getting a new job on campus, etc. Eventually when you make new friends- you can leave your old friends behind. There are other tips earlier in the guide- you can always follow those if you relied a bit too much on the dorm magic to make your freshman friends!

**Do all your close friends come from freshman year?**

No. While its easier for friendships to become stronger if they start freshman year because you have 4 years to develop a strong bond with someone- close friends come from any year. The person I lived with for a few years I met freshman year- but the person I would call my closest friend I met my sophomore year in college. Some of the closest people that I remain in contact with after graduation I only met late Junior year or even senior year of college. You can make close friends any year- you never know who you may end up meeting!

**Am I the only one that feels so lonely?** 

No. 

Like I said- it is the most common topic on our sub. Lots of college students struggle with the adjustment. You are not alone. Stay strong and try to follow the tips I outlined in the rest of this little guide to make some friends. If you put in the effort I would find it very difficult to believe that you can't make a single good friend. 


**Still having trouble making friends?**


**RELAX**. Making friends takes time and effort. You cannot expect to make close friends immediately. Continue being yourself and you will find friends eventually. No one likes someone who is miserable because they feel alone. Remain positive and remember that there are other people in your shoes too. There is nothing wrong with feeling lonely in college, I'm sure most people on this sub have experienced it at one point or another. Keep doing you, take a deep breath, and enjoy college! The 4 years fly by quick. 


**Is there anything I should avoid to increase my potential to make new friends?**


*Yes*: 

* Avoid staying in your room all day. You cannot make friends if you hide from people 

* Avoid not talking to people. You cannot make friends if you are silent. I know I am a very quiet person but if I can force myself to talk to new people you can too. 

* Avoid remaining comfortable. Those 2 friends from highschool that came with you to college? Don't spend all your time with them. Branch out. Meet new people. Step out of your comfort zone. 


* Avoid not showering. If you smell bad people are less likely to talk to you 

* Avoid posting on this sub about not making friends. This won't help you make friends. Get off reddit and talk to real people instead. We can be your friends too but it probably won't replace the loneliness you feel in real life. 





I was by no means a social butterfly in college and felt loneliness plenty of times- especially being the only one at my out of state college from my highschool (ever!!). Stay calm, remain positive, and try to follow the basic advice outlined in this thread. Good luck! ",150,829,419.85667138394376,college
Loneliness at college,"How do you deal with loneliness at college? I’m an international student and I was raised with a huge difference in the environment/ideas for fun. I only have a few friends/people I know. Most people here just drink, party, or binge watch in the weekend. To make things worse, most people here are in state students and already know each other or have a lot in common. My roommates don’t do anything but play video games, study, and watch stuff online. The only thing I can think of is going to the gym but I can’t get over my social fears because I’m small and skinny. 
Thank you.",97,832,4.999564902462341,college
Have you guys ever taken a class that made you wonder if you should even be in college?,,166,823,28.874449161721603,college
A shot taken in the gardens on campus.,,31,823,370.2474584209809,college
Everyone excited? I'm starting my 19th year on a college campus!,"5 years undergrad

5 years grad school

9 years as a professor

AND I STILL GET EXCITED EVERY FALL!!! There is truly no place like a college campus.",96,822,804.6455139765364,college
Can I leave a note on the toilet stall wall telling a girl to go to the doctor or learn how to use a toilet?,"There’s a girl on my floor who completely destroys the toilet stalls. They’re always covered in her feces. The other day there was crap on the toilet seat itself and somehow on the wall behind it. I feel so bad for the custodian who has to clean it up. 

Would it be mean to put a note near the toilet next time it happens that’s says “Either go to the doctor or clean your crap up. It’s absolutely disgusting and immature that this keeps happening” ",130,811,222.3619028654253,college
Friendships from back home aren’t the same anymore after a few years of college and summers suck.,"Anybody else’s friendships with their high school friends just not the same? We are still friends but nowhere as close as in high school. Of my 5 close friends from  high school 2 just aren’t the same, 1 has a job far away and 2 have girlfriends that they have to do literally everything with, which is fine but gets annoying when they literally won’t go anywhere without them. All while I’m working 40 hour weeks. Summer sucks.",61,805,108.15637045801789,college
Anyone else having mental breakdowns at this point of the semester?,"Just had my third one today. Have five major papers due next week in addition to two exams that are worth more than a third of my grade. I’m trying to stay calm and collected but the pressure is really starting to get to me. I’m terrified of all the hard work I put in this semester going to waste. Does anyone have tips to cope with the stress of finals?

Edit: Thank you guys so much for all of your encouraging responses! Although my eyes are swollen from crying yesterday, I woke up early and completed an outline for one of my papers. I’m feeling much better now. Good luck to everyone else who’s going through finals right now! 

Side note: I didn’t wait to start my papers until this week. I have outlined at least or have a rough draft for all of them except one. I’m just stressed about them being good enough.",108,797,178.93117369875864,college
So when I meet my roommate for the first time should I dap him up or should I just go for a handshake?,"Don’t wanna start this year off on an uncomfortable note so should I go for the classic boi’s dap or an old fashioned handshake, maybe elbow grab included?",165,799,63.49825703209197,college
I think my professor has actually lost it,"I apologize as this is going to be quite long but I actually think this woman has gone crazy; We had lecture on Wednesday and it seemed to be a normal class, the only thing different was she said she had to cover for a colleague so she couldn’t have office hours that day. Fine by me. After the class she sent out a class wide email explaining that the whole class she had never seen us being so disrespectful and we made her day worse because of some “Tragic/traumatizing news” she received regarding a colleague. She had also individually emailed me asking me about a question I had in class that day. I tell her i’ve understood it now and thanked her for helping. She then emails me back saying that she had already explained why the exponent was negative 20-30 times and me asking that question had completely thrown off the flow of the lecture and told me I need to pay attention more and that it “can’t/won’t happen again.” Yesterday, We had lab without the professor and apparently she had done this to several other students as well. She has also sent several other class wide emails that just said “there will be a pop quiz on Friday with no equation sheet. be prepared.” Am I wrong for thinking that this woman has lost it? What happened to no stupid questions? Is this an okay thing to say/do?",46,799,188.28870842098084,college
I miss being around people of color (I know it sounds dumb).,"I’m an 18 year old white guy and just moved into college. I’m going to a private school in the south that’s largely composed of rich white people, so the culture here is obviously a certain way. I’m not blaming anyone for there being a lack of diversity on campus but I grew up in a decent sized city close to the small town where my college is located and was raised in public school around people from many different backgrounds. I went to an elementary school next door to an apartment complex for first-generation immigrants, so all my life I’ve been around people of different colors, religions, and financial backgrounds. Here it feels like everyone’s a clone of each other. And I can’t help but compare myself to other people. I miss the diversity of my middle and high school campus. I do volunteer work for an organization that largely serves underprivileged kids and families who tend to live in ethnic or largely African-American neighborhoods so I’ll have a chance to be in that atmosphere at times, but I just feel uncomfortable and swarmed by people who are exactly alike here. Is there anything else I can get involved in to make me feel like there’s other things in the world than fraternities and Patagonia? I want to come back to earth a little bit.",179,795,54.27508573579567,college
"UT Austin promises free tuition to students with family income less than $65,000 in 2020",,108,783,100.10893990246235,college
Do you guys use headphones or earbuds when you walk to classes?,The title.. I have both but have only been using headphones in my room and earbuds when going to class so far.,232,791,36.23961119875864,college
What’s the weirdest or most off-putting thing you’ve heard a professor say?,"My professor told us he wouldn’t hesitate to kill all of us if it meant he got to live one more day SO THAT’S NEAT. 

(Still 12/10 my favorite professor of the semester though)",289,788,260.24877786542527,college
One of my roommates is obsessed with me.,"There’s a multitude of examples I can provide, but I’ll just present the noteworthy ones. I’ve caught him multiple times watching me get dressed, usually followed up with a compliment on how nice my body is. If I say, “I’m going to go eat” he’ll be like, “Yeah, it’s been like... an hour. Gotta eat and get that protein.” He bases when he eats around when I eat, when I go the the gym around where he goes, and most of his other daily activities. He’ll text me everyday asking where I am and what I’m doing, and will talk roughly every 2 days about us rooming together after this year (it’s been less than two weeks).All this considered, I’m done with this hall. The option to switch rooms just opened and I wanna know if I should take it.",100,786,51.000120458017896,college
Stay clear of for profit colleges,"To anyone who is reading and considering going to a for-profit school, please stay clear.  It may help you down the line as you apply for good paying jobs.  For profit colleges to some employers is a disqualifying factor.  However, the number one reason to stay away is the overwhelming debt that can be accumulated for a degree that is looked at as having little value.  You don't want to be owing hundreds of thousands for a degree that may not even get you an entry level job.  Yeah, you're best going to a community college which has way more respect.",90,782,66.42234268024012,college
My grandfather died right before finals.,"I made a post awhile ago about my professors being really understanding about the situation. I’m on mobile so I’m not really sure how to link.

My grandfather didn’t finish high school and was very, very proud I was going to college and succeeding. I really wanted to just reschedule my finals but I figured I’d go anyway because what a way to honor him, you know?

I crushed my finals. I did really well. I’m a/b honor roll this semester. In light of the stress that has gone on with him entering palliative care, I still somehow managed to study and pull together what I needed to.

Just wanted to update you guys. This community was really supportive. Thank you all for the kind words on my last post.",28,788,175.2436389765364,college
Y’all ever study really hard for a test and just fail it anyway 🙃,,111,782,223.99755101357343,college
"College Isn't For Me, But I Am Female.","I grew up an A+ student who was always told by my mother, ""You have to go to college or you'll be making minimum wage your entire life. Only guys can make a living without going to college."" This honestly trapped me and I felt forced. I've become extremely burnt out from school and college seems like a major waste of money to me. Even if I didn't think it was a waste of money or it was free, I would not be able to mentally handle the shit that comes with college because of how insanely fucked my mentality is due to trauma. College just isn't working out and this is my second attempt at trying to do so. How can I have a reliable future without attending college as a female? I'm honestly worried to no end right now, so any help is appreciated.",143,776,38.2660116617216,college
Being charged 17USD to submit my homework? Is that ethical and should I switch classes?,"Sorry if the formatting is weird for this, I'm on mobile.

I'm a recent college freshman and for my stats class our teacher wants us to pay 17 dollars to submit our homework despite the fact that  we already use a program we can submit our homework on. Ontop of that her syllabus essentially says to not bother her with any questions whatsoever.

""Before reaching out, I expect you to put effort into answering your own questions. When you ask me a question, I will ask you to show me what you've already done to find the answer, and if it's clear that you haven't read the course notes or the provided readings, you will need 
to do that before we revist.

Not hearing back from me (such as having a question on an assignment) is not an excuse for not being able to turn the assignment in on time. Everything should be clearly explained in the assignments section of Canvas, including what format to submit your assignment in.""

My friend says I should just stick it out because this class is a requirement for my major, but this isn't really the type of learning environment I feel will actually benefit me. Should I just suck it up or find another class that meets the requirements?

TL:DR teacher wants us to use another homework submitting site for 17 USD and doesn't want to be bothered with questions.",153,773,40.45656721727716,college
I worked so hard for this,I am so proud of this last semester and I just needed to share it here. I took my first semester 2 years ago and I finished with a 0.2 GPA. I took a break and I worked my ass off this fall semester and the final grades are in. My semester GPA was a 3.11 and my cumulative is now a 2.07 and I’m hella fucking proud. I know I’ve still got a long ways to go but I just wanted to share my experience. If you’ve had bad semesters it can get better. ,64,778,281.86693758764756,college
Am I the only one who COMPLETELY ignore school work at least one day a week to rest my mind?,"I finally began to take higher engineering classes this quarter, and wow...it is hard. 


I noticed that whenever the weekend is here, I always take a one-day break from all the school stuff and relax, despite how much I need to study or how much homework I need to finish. 


Am I the only one? Am I being lazy?

Edit: Wow! You guys are awesome! :D",93,772,362.14787508764755,college
I created a google doc with 6 pages of tips on how to get good grades.,"I basically went through like 10 or 15 forum/quora/reddit posts, and read two books to compile these tips. Any additions are welcome. 

The most important section is the ""study habits"" section, as noted by some commenters 
  
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jN3Hy1h4he5eHTbq5enaDVrrlywBvAYjXELia6R_9j8/edit#

And here is another post from this subreddit that goes far deeper into the importance of habit and routine forming than I have. (I agree with everything on the post)

https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/4wrp56/what_i_tell_incoming_freshman_every_year_good/

All advice on that post aligns with at least one, if both,  of the college books I've read. Srsly read it lol.

P. S. (entirely unrelated) I found a survey app called Pulse for college students exclusively. They often ask questions about depression, school, etc. If you have the time/are interested pls use my referral code (you also get 250 pulse points, note it's only 1200 to redeem a 3 month trial in skillshare) : Follow the link below or enter the code o8yddW5VOR in the app. https://bbuw.app.link/o8yddW5VOR

The survey results are pretty interesting and cover areas like dating, alcohol, intelligence, depression, school etc. It's restricted to college students with a college email address. you can redeem prizes like a 3 month trial to skillshare with just 60 surveys (2 minutes each). I'm trying to get the biggest prize of an electric bike, so that I can bike to a near by climbing gym 2-3 times a week for fitness/training for a climbing competition. ",42,765,813.0117871246846,college
The struggle is real.,,86,755,991.039507032092,college
Why does my brain stop working in the last two weeks of the semester when I need it most?,Help,72,751,172.08621999505493,college
Call your grandma,"Seriously. I just got off the phone with mine and I feel 10x better.

This semester has been hell for me. I'm taking 3 hard classes and marching band so I've never been more stressed. I'm not getting the grades I want and I've been rather hard on myself. I have 2 tests this week that really make or break my GPA and I'm sick with stress.

 I needed someone to vent to so I called my grandma.
She was so thrilled that I called and was so happy to talk to me. I let out all my frustrations and she gave me encouraging compliments. It made me feel so great when she told me that I would make her proud even if I did end the semester with bad grades. It was just 15 minutes of pure wholesome. 
She prayed for me over the phone and asked when my tests were so she could pray during that time.
Now she's telling all her friends to do the same for me. 

I'm sure I'm not the only one here who's stressed right now. If you have a grandma, call her. I'll make your day and hers. 
",80,747,344.99672925431423,college
Went from being a high school dropout a year ago (Dec 2015) to getting straight A's in my first semester of college (Dec 2016). first time in my life I ever got straight A's....,,99,743,1033.9656760135736,college
"I’ve heard not to buy text books until they are actually required in class, should I do this, I’m an incoming freshmen?",,148,746,62.29241212468457,college
Professors been gone for 4 weeks.,"Is there anything I can do about this? Im taking intro to CS and Object Oriented Programing which are hoth taught by the same professor, however about the third week into the semester she had a family emergency and flew all the way to India, told us class was canceled on that Monday and Tuesday and hasn’t communicated with us since. 

Finally after a week and a half we got “subs.” I say subs because our sub for OOP has not lectured once within these past weeks since shes been gone, and not only is he not teaching but he decided hes going to go against the syllabus and give us 0’s for any late work and I just failed my first exam because teaching myself hasnt been very effective.  Also irrelevant but he got on to me to take my beanie off the other day, like wtf is this High School? Anyway the sub for my Intro to CS course is horrible at lecturing, he just reads off the slides and doesnt seem to know what hes doing, and he dropped about 5 labs on us within the first week and is rushing through the chapters like nothing. 

IM the one paying out of my pocket for these classes and I feel like im getting royally fucked, excuse the language but im really beyond frustrated.",30,743,7.253048698758637,college
Professor lowered my grade from a C to an F after the semester ended,"As the title says. I took a Financial Literacy course last semester and completed it with a 76. That was the number on my transcript when the semester was fully over (finals were graded and entered). I checked my transcript again today, more than halfway into the next semester, and found that my grade for the course was now a big fat F. I asked the professor why they would go back and change it and they claimed that ""they didn't feel I knew the material well enough."" Is there anything I can do about this? Should I bring it up with the dean?",51,744,185.9890903654253,college
I have already forgotten some subjects.,"Does this happen to everyone, or am I not doing this college thing right. I tried to solve my Calculus II midterm paper which I aced a couple of months ago (got a 93) and to my surprise I had forgotten nearly everything. I am certain that if I took the same test today I would barely pass.

Am I not studying right? Should I re-read those previous lessons to keep myself fresh now that I have the time to do so?",72,742,34.357342680240116,college
Went from being on Academic Probation to the Dean’s List (Freshman),"So my first semester I didn’t try very hard and didn’t study thinking that I could pull the same stuff I did in high school and ended straight up failing half my classes and getting a 1.26 GPA. Over winter break I thought to myself you can do better than that and in the spring semester I applied myself to my studies a lot more diligently, started going to office hours and supplemental instruction classes even if I didn’t think I needed to, and got help from my fraternity brothers who had taken my classes before and ended up getting a 3.57 GPA this semester and got on the Dean’s List. Moral of the story: never give up and you can always do better; even if you failed a couple classes :)",56,728,147.35383573579568,college
I have lost my personality,"I am a Computer Science major. I met with some of my classmates from high school recently and found it incredible how I've completely lost my ""flow"" with them. In high school, we had very similar personalities and were able to joke around with each other easily. However, this time it didn't feel like I was the same person. I thought high school Me was going to magically come back out again, but this time I acted just like college Me - Socially awkward, no sense of humor, difficulty paying attention to what was happening, constantly thinking about schoolwork, etc. It's like college has killed the old me and replaced it with an automaton who only exists to study for exams, work through assignments, etc. 

I miss the old me. I feel like college has ruined who I am by isolating me from other people for so long. I thought the reason I was so serious all the time was because college is just a serious place and as soon as I was out I would be normal again. It's starting to piss me off because I don't want to just be a robot for the rest of my life. I feel like I'm no longer a real person. I don't know how to recover the old version of me or if it's even possible. Is there anything I can do to have a personality again?",39,735,285.7546806432031,college
How did the student debt in US get so out of hand?,I'm finnish and the more I read and hear about the problems United States has the more I appreciate the nordic welfare model. The student debt situation sounds so bad with people paying their degrees off for years and years. How did it get so out of hand? Why does it have to be so gigantic sums? I'm not sure byt apparently no other nation has a situation like that.,168,722,27.249993143203085,college
Anybody else sacrificing yet another summer so they can get the year over with faster?,"Sacrificing my third summer to summer classes and I’m just kinda bitter about it, kinda sucks still having that always worrying “college brain” during the time most people are relaxing/partying/working  etc.. I had  a week before my first session started. A fucking week, it really kinda sucks because it’s like I legit have to cancel plans so I can study/read/write a paper or oh let’s not forget the robotic basic ass Discussion boards every week that absolutely NOBODY tries on.  What’s up with that shit anyways? It’s always the same: “this article really opened my eyes” or “I was blown away and now have changed my ways after reading this” like always making some
Big ass display of empty assertions describing the articles impact on some idea it presented to them. Oh then there’s my personal favorite “nice post today!” *insert complimentary, enlightening detail about the other persons post while using words like: “I, too also think this way” or “Susan, I agree and I must say, great minds must think alike!”*.
Then you got the professor who’s painfully responding to all this shit who’s probably just as thrilled as we are to be here.",167,720,143.4132917543142,college
Went to the wrong class on my first day of college!,"I got the room number right, but the building wrong. I realized as soon as she put up the syllabus that I was in a history class and NOT psychology???? AND MY DUMBASS DIDN'T THINK TO GET UP EVEN AFTER REALIZING BC IM SHY AS FUCK SO I JUST WAITED FOR 3O MINUTES TO GO BY

​

AND THEN SHE MADE US INTRODUCE OURSELVES WITH A \*FUN\* FACT

​

MY FUN FACT WAS THAT I WAS IN THE WRONG CLASS AND EVERY1 LAUGHED and now i just want to die in a hole....far away from this campus..............

​

but yeah my question is what do I do about the class I didn't attend, should I email the professor and tell him I got the schedule mixed up or something? Ugh this is so bad idk",85,718,415.3944028654253,college
Who else is having their mid summer crisis?!,It has just gone really fast this year.,111,716,90.03956490246235,college
Everybody stares at me wherever I go,"This only started happening in college but everybody stares at me here. I know that glancing at someone walking by is normal, but whenever I’m sitting in the library or food court and look up, I always see somebody staring at me and then they look down quickly. When I walk by groups of people, they always turn and look at me and then start talking. I find that people will stare at me during class and I’ll meet their eyes several times (they were looking at me first).

I’m really socially anxious and I don’t know why this is happening.. I’m not weird looking and I try to dress normally..

Edit - I kind of just posted this to see if any other people had similar experiences",102,713,31.020213050610487,college
Heelys as transportation?,"So I’m gonna be a freshman at a private school this year. I’m an athlete and the fields and the freshman dorms are literally on opposite sides, so I’m gonna have to walk 40ish minutes to practice everyday. I’m really considering buying heelys cause they were fun as fuck to ride and if I’m gonna get them im gonna get them in black. Just wondering if this is a good idea or am I stupid

Update: Yall I might just do it with all this gassing. Also my school does not have a shuttle, and if I actually do get heelys, I won’t be wearing them all the time. I would probably just switch out of them and put them in my bag lol",148,712,150.23326860616604,college
Does anyone else find it really hard to go to class when it’s cold?,"I don’t know if it’s because I’m depressed but I hate going to class so so much when it’s cold. Having to wait 20 minutes for a bus and then a train while it’s 10-15 degrees just to get to a pointless class sucks. 

It’s definitely easier to make it to class when it’s warmer, since I don’t mind actually having to walk outside ",81,720,240.3222153769682,college
"If you're in doubt, life definitely does get better after college","I graduated in May with a BS. Two years of community college and then two years of a state college. Didn't take any loans out since I worked throughout all of college and saving up from my high school days. I also landed a great internship that paid well enough that let me take my last 2 semesters without working. 

My main point is that now that I'm graduated and no longer have to drain my soul everyday doing mundane tasks and long shitty exams, my mental health is loads better. Those of you barely holding on, just get through it the best you can.

Now I've got a set schedule that really let's me plan out my days and weekends way ahead of time. I work a 8-4 shift and getting paid an okay $40/hr for it.

The feeling of having to study or forgetting to turn something in still lingers but it's gradually going away.  I still get nightmares about Calc 2 and Physics 2, though.

So yeah, I think I'll hold off from blowing my brains out for a bit longer now and see where things are going. Don't kill yourselves just yet folks, it can get better. Maybe.",100,712,109.53505102511632,college
Today I found out I was related to one of my best friends in college,We sit together everyday in my political science class and we study a lot together and hang out quite a bit and we’ve gotten along really well. And today we found out we’re actually distant cousins. His moms maiden name is the same last name as mine(he didn’t know my last name until today) after some research on Facebook we realized we’re actually related. Funny who you meet in college,35,716,177.21189130289412,college
"My professor lowkey called me stupid, for no fault of my own. The worst part? I wanted to work with him on project.","College started a month ago, before joining I had seen this professor's profile, research and was quite impressed. I possibly wanted to do my Masters dissertation with him. 

We have lab sessions which said professor takes. I was performing experiment assigned to me. It was done by a batchmate in the session before it. The said batchmate tells me to do experiment in X way which I find very dubious. Like, we were supposed to find a quantity (Wavelength) and the said classmate used a ready-made chart of wavelength which frankly made the experiment pointless. Whereas the instruction sheet told to do it in Y way. Mind you that we have done experiments in way that are not given in instruction sheets before. 

Let me tell you that I have a lot and lot of self doubt so even if I know that the X way to do stuff is wrong, I go and ask the professor to confirm. He's super condescending and asks me to figure it out on my own. By the end of lab session he asks me- ""so... What was your question again?"" I say it and he is like ""I generally don't say this...but this question was frankly stupid"". Fml. 


I would highly appreciate your advice on this. 

TL;DR - Fucked up by asking a super super obvious question to professor, he said that my question was stupid and was condescending to me. I wanted to work on project with him in future (because his research aligns with my interests). So I don't know what to do.",63,710,20.525305654745964,college
Ivy League universities' mottos translated,,26,711,630.2992061177089,college
Do you ever have panic dreams you missed the first week of class or something of that nature?,"Even though it's the summer and I am only taking online classes, I seem to have have them once a week. Last night it was that I mixed up the start times for all of my classes the first 2 days and than couldn't find the building my classes were in and I got dropped from my classes and than dropped from the university. Which is a crazy scenario, especially considering I am one of those kids who is 30 minutes early to every class in the first week to prevent something like that from happening.

Am I crazy or do y'all have these dreams as well?",83,709,126.30730796956078,college
How do you guys work smarter not harder in college?,,136,704,122.29641676585706,college
Write Drunk + Edit Sober = Success,"I have a 7 page essay due on Sunday, and I found that if I have a drink before I start writing, I'm able to output much more than usual.

 When I'm sober, I'm anxious. I always try to find the perfect words to write on an essay. I'll write a sentence and say ""hmm that doesn't sound right"" or ""no no no my professor won't like this I should redo it."" 

But when I'm tipsy, I'm bold. I have much more of a ""I'm gonna write this and you're gonna f\*cking like it"" attitude. I can type sentence after sentence without stopping and not care about perfecting it, while using complex vocabulary and maintaining a formal tone. 

Not saying it's for everybody.. but if you're apprehensive like me when it comes to writing essays, give it a try.",83,694,386.2554561177089,college
I just finished the last final of my college career. Here are some of the things I've learned over the past five years.,"**Academic**

* Don't freak out if you don't immediately love your major when starting out. I majored in criminal justice and for the first two semesters I was really unsure of my choice. But I decided to stick it out, and I'm very glad I did. 

* However, if you REALLY don't like what you're studying, don't be afraid of change! Do some research, decide what's important to you, and TALK TO YOUR ADVISOR. 

* Seriously, talk to your advisor. They're there to help you. If you're worried about a class, or need a change, a good advisor will have your back.

* Obviously you want to get good grades; that's a big part of college. BUT: Don't think it's the end of the world if you get a B-, or a C, or even a D in some cases. Take a breath. Calm down. You're not going to flunk out of college because of one bad grade. We've all had classes we struggle with (that was math and science for me). The important thing is that you try your best and don't let it take over your life.

* If you are having trouble with a class, like you're just not getting the material and keep struggling, talk with the professor! Most of them are more than happy to help you out. Also look for tutoring programs. I used one to help pass statistics and it saved my grade.

* While signing up for classes, if you know one of them is going to be more of a challenge, try to give yourself some breathing room. For instance, when I took statistics, I made sure all my other credits were criminal justice related because A) I knew that material well and B) they were more enjoyable. Spread out the misery, so to speak.

* Don't skip class unless you actually HAVE to, not because you WANT to. I shudder thinking back on how many times I skipped and what it probably did to my grade. Some classes, especially first/second year ones, also count attendance towards your points.

* I know the saying ""sleep is for the weak"" is popular, but don't take that to heart. Sleep is important. Putting off a project/studying for a test until the day before and pulling an all-nighter isn't going to turn out well.

* However, if you DO have to pull an all-nighter, try to get at least some sleep. Some people can run on three or four hours, others need more. Listen to your body.

**Dorm life**

I lived in a dorm for the first two years of college before getting an apartment. Here's some tips:

* Yes, ramen is cheap at first glance, but it's utter shit in terms of nutrition. It's also not as inexpensive as some people believe. A 10lb bag of rice, in the long run, will be much cheaper (and healthier!). Learn to use spices, even just basic ones. Here are some other cheap, relatively healthy foods and ideas:

1) Eggs

2) Fruits like bananas, oranges, etc

3) Potatoes

4) Frozen veggies

5) For breakfast: Oatmeal, healthy cereal, etc

6) Replace soda with tea, or even seltzer water if it's the fizz you miss. I've got a love affair with Safeway-brand orange seltzer now. Avoid energy drinks at all costs. They're 99% sugar and can wreck your body.

7) Seriously, learn how to season. A little bit of spice goes a long way. Cayenne, paprika, thyme, and garlic powder are some of my go-tos.

* Exercise. Even if it's just fifteen minutes a day walking, or a short jog, or doing a few reps of weights in your room. You feel 10x better and your body will thank you.

* It's easier to keep your room clean by maintaining a regular chore schedule than trying to clean everything up at once. 

* FFS, wear shower shoes/sandals. Communal showers are gross. Chances are some nasty-ass dude probably jerked it in there that morning. 

* If you've got roommates, be respectful. My first roomie and I were total opposites in terms of hobbies and habits, but we got along just fine because we respected each other, did necessary chores, kept the room clean, and was aware of each others' sleeping/studying schedules. Basically, don't be a dick.

* Try to be nice your RA's. I know some of them can be assholes (speaking from experience, I was one for a while) but they're just trying to do their jobs most of the time. Go to them if you've got an issue.

* Don't totally rely on meal plans if that's a thing at your college. Mine, if used as the college intended, would only get you one meal a day. Learn to cook basic stuff and you'll save a ton of money in the long run.

* Keep your goddamn music down, or wear headphones. Seriously.

* It can be challenging, or even downright scary to try and meet new friends, but at least give it a shot. I'm extremely introverted and it took a while to start meeting people, but it was worth it. Don't just hole up in your room all day.

**Work/school/social life**

* Working while going to school can be a blessing and a curse. The income is great, but if you're taking 18 credits at the same time it sucks. If you can, try to find a job with flexible scheduling. University/college jobs are usually really good about this.

* While it is possible to work full-time and go to school as well, it can SUCK at times. I did that this past year working midnight shift. There were a lot of days I was running off three hours of sleep. I also sacrificed any semblance of a social life. 

* The same guidelines above apply to internships. If you're having to bend over backwards and sacrifice your soul to make it work, you should ask yourself if it's worth it. 

* Sleep more than you study, study more than you party, and party as much as you can. It's a bit cliche, but it's true.

* You need to have a day or two off now and again to decompress. I've met people who dedicated themselves solely to schoolwork pretty much 24/7 and it wrecked them by the end of the semester. Conversely, think of college like a job. Do the work and don't slack off. It's all about balance.

* On the topic of parties: Be safe! Never leave your drink unattended. Have a sober driver, take an uber, walk, but under NO CIRCUMSTANCES DO YOU GET BEHIND THE WHEEL WHILE INTOXICATED. The same applies to any other illicit substances. Intoxicated/impaired drivers are the scum of the earth. Try to have a sober friend with you if you're going somewhere unfamiliar, or with people you don't know well.

* Have fun! College is supposed to be enjoyable. Don't torture yourself just because you think it's 100% about getting good grades.

* Mental illness is a big issue in college. Don't ever hesitate to get help if you need it, even if you don't think it's a ""big deal"". You wouldn't just tough out a broken leg or bacterial meningitis; don't treat your brain the same way.",44,699,524.9857107473385,college
"remember to back up all of your work, kids!","so my hard drive just died on me and I was working on a 10-page paper that was all on Microsoft Word and now I have to write an entire 10-page research paper tonight :))) 

I've already tried emailing my professor (no response at the time of posting this), but I get the feeling it's going to sound like a thinly veiled excuse for not doing my paper so I'm just speedwriting and researching with hella tears in my eyes

update uno - (a) **I do usually use Google Drive, I just was in a place w no Internet and I didn't have offline mode on so I resorted to Word.** and (b) my professor responded. no dice. if I want full credit, it needs to be submitted tomorrow. I kind of knew this would happen, but ah well. goodbye world",93,697,317.01089593252374,college
The Real MVP,,33,693,647.1963473214126,college
I just completed an entire semesters worth of work in a week and submitted it with 20 minutes to spare,Never do that. It's not fun,55,688,528.7679792658571,college
Did break ruin anybody else’s sleeping schedule?,,84,685,275.55089593252376,college
I made a 97 in my Microbiology final!,😩👌 Time to lie down and sleep for a few years.,32,685,306.9715788028941,college
Are all colleges cliquey as shit?,"Literally the only way to make friends in my school is to get lucky and have a social suite/floor, have hs friends or join a sport, frat etc. which just isn't for me. Are most colleges like this? Is real life like this too?",140,686,14.060155191782998,college
I'm a professor: This is what I tell my family members BEFORE they go to college.,"I know it is college season and many of you are picking a school or looking to switch schools. I see your questions and your comments on the front page of /r/college. Some of you have parents that went to college and some of you don't. Some of you are traditional and some are nontraditional with respect to age. Some of you are veterans and some have never had a job. I want to give you a piece of advice I give to my family members. You can take it or leave it, but don't discount what I say because you don't like it; I'm tenured, I've been doing this a very long time. I've spent nearly two decades now within the walls of a college in some capacity. 

**1. The top students in any field will get a job in their field, but the % considered ""top"" varies by discipline.** Jobs in editing are less plentiful than in engineering. Majoring in either does not ASSURE you a job, but if you are in the top percent out there, you will likely be hired. For English, that may be the top 5% and for engineering it is probably the top 60%. Just like anything else, it is supply and demand. If you aren't competitive within your major with your classmates then you likely aren't going to be competitive in the jobs designed for that major (unless you already have an ""in"" somewhere). That said, it doesn't mean you will be unemployed, as many jobs in retail still want a bachelor's degree. 

**2. College is expensive and many of you will waste money.**  If you are on this sub (or conscious) you know college is expensive. The average student loan debt in the US right now is around $30K for a bachelor's. This is about a $300/month loan payment for 10 years. In general, you can expect $100/month repayment for every $10K you take out. I see a LOT of students who are ROYALLY screwing themselves over here. Look at a few scenarios: you go to an expensive liberal arts school that costs you $100,000 over 4 years. You are literally owing more than most mortgage payments when you get out. Some of my students take out the maximum aid dollars and then go out to eat, pay for an expensive phone, new computers every year, and shopping trips. Some people say, ""yes, but I'll be a ____ and have plenty of money when I'm out."" Will you? Do you know how many students change their majors? Flunk out of classes/their major? Aren't the top whatever percent in (1) above that won't be competitive for those jobs? It's a LOT of people. Google tells me that 80% of students change their major at least once and 44% drop out (70% drop out of a 2-year college). The average job with a bachelor's earns about $50K/year (+/- $15K depending on the field). Your take-home pay after taxes will be around $35K-$50K depending on your location and tax bracket. Do you want a solid 1/4 of your income to go to student loans for the next decade? If not, read the following points.

**3. Don't waste money.** Unless you are in the top 1-2% getting very powerful, high ranking jobs with a bachelor's degree, the college you choose is largely irrelevant (think Harvard business school, and you have family connections on Wall Street). Regional public universities offer the most affordable education, and many are within a driving distance from home. You may want freedom from mom so you go away and live in a dorm for 4 years, but when you are 22, living back with mom because you have too much student loan debt, you'll wish you took my advice. Most of you will lose nothing by going the affordable route. You will still be a teacher, or an engineer, or a chemist, or a writer. Just be the top %. An exception obviously is if the local school does not offer the program you need. 

**4. Don't retake classes. Ever.** This means you have to take college seriously. Don't ever fail classes. Don't retake them. When you do, they still show up on your transcripts but the GPA is ignored by your school from the first time. A med school will see 3 hours of F in organic, followed by 3 hours of A, and average to 6 hours of C. You can't escape poor decisions. So be studious. Be serious. Don't ever fail a class. They are expensive. I see students wasting thousands of dollars in their classes by retaking them. It delays your graduation, it costs you money, and if you are on student loans, you'll literally be paying for classes you failed for a decade. This brings me to my next point.

**5. Know when to change your major.** Nobody, and I do mean NOBODY, wants a physician that has to do everything twice to get it right. I have a ton of students every semester that struggle in every class in their major (I'm in chemistry). They MUST be doctors though. So they keep taking the same classes over and over and over and... it is never going to happen. As I said, nobody wants the doctor that has to do everything twice to get it right. Pick a major that you are good at. It will help you do well in school, which will save you money in the long run. Develop reasonable career goals that fit your strongest attributes, not ones that will showcase your weakest. 

**6. Don't go to college if you don't want to.** I have a lot of students who waste a lot of money going to college because their parents wanted them to. Let me share a story. I'm 3 years older than my brother. He had a ton of learning issues and decided to pursue a trade (auto mechanic) while I spent a decade in college. My salary at 30 was the same as his salary at 30, but his lifetime earnings are more than mine since I took out 10 years of full time work to pursue studies while he was working full time. There are plenty of ways to be successful without a degree. 

 TL;DR Don't spend more money than absolutely necessary in college. Be smart and don't fail classes. Don't go to expensive schools. Don't fall into the ""real college experience"" bullshit that will keep many of you in poverty until you are well into your 30's. ",128,676,921.9246459325237,college
What's the dumbest thing your college has wasted money on?,"My college just spent $50,000 on a reflexology path. Where you walk barefoot on a bunch of rocks because it supposedly has healing properties. Yes, the student government association allowed that to happen. And then everyone wonders why college gets so expensive and kids go into so much debt. ",271,678,405.157342691783,college
Join the Battle for Net Neutrality by making some calls to Congress during your Thanksgiving break!,,13,676,694.6791829695608,college
How the hell do you meet people in college if you just moved and know absolutely no one?,"Basically what the title says. Over this summer, I moved across the USA and started community college. The thing is, I’m pretty shy. Like, headphones in, head looking at the ground, mumbles and stutters if someone talks to me shy. I’m not good with people. So how the hell can I make friends?",96,665,21.37495843252374,college
class discussion starterpack,"To play devils advocate...

Building on what __ said...

Adding on to what ___ said...

And like yeah...

Going off of what ___ said...

If you look at it from a ___ perspective

Just to expand on what ___ said...

What other phrases seem to come up all the time?",55,664,278.1091713954867,college
A guide to life in college (long post),"This guide was written out of inspiration from a reddit comment that I wrote in response to someone asking how to get a 4.0 in college. My advice was not to focus on the grades as much as the overall learning experience, and other important aspects of college, which often get overlooked from a usefulness perspective. These aspects include networking, learning outside of the classroom, exposing yourself to new things, and keeping ones life balances, and trying to keep oneself healthy, both in body and spirit.

## First off:

Balance is important to maintaining a healthy life and maximum productivity. The amount of stuff you get done is not based purely on the amount of time in which you attempt to be productive. Procrastination is often a result of emotional stress and anxiety, and not laziness. Telling yourself to ""just do something"" will not make it easier to be productive towards a particular goal.

This guide aims to give you advice on how to effectively manage your college experience.

## Time Management

Time management is an essential part of being productive. You don't need to account for every second of every minute, but you need to create a schedule that works for you. Attempt to find the worse uses of your time, and eliminate them form your habits.

Use time between classes wisely.

Try to track time and figure out where it goes.

## The Big Five

I like to think of ""the big five"" them as MEDSS ""meds"" with two s's. The big five are meditation, exercise, diet, sleep, and social (activity). Incorporating these into your life on a regular basis will vastly improve it. There may not be any magic pill, but these things will improve your life likely more than any medication will (with some notable exceptions if you are gravely sick). ""The Big Five"" also

### Meditation

Meditation can be easily started with an app such as headspace, or insight timer (I believe there are many others, these are just the ones that I happen to use). Only takes 10-20 minutes a day, and you will see real improvements in your life.

### Exercise

Exercise should be done at least 3x a week, and can be in very many forms. You can do strength training, yoga, cardio (running, rowing, stair stepping, HIIT), climbing, team sports, and many other things. I personally do strength training with some cardio thrown in (not as often as I should with the cardio, but I'm working on it). **Remember, an exercise activity you will do is more important than something that is ideal for maximum health, that you never do.**

I believe that strength and cardiovascular training should be included in everyones workout routine. I personally started strength training with Stronglifts 5x5, and I highly recommend it as something that is simple and easy to get started with. Starting strength is another good option. Please note: you _need_ to use proper form, or you will end up injuring yourself over the long run, I suggest watching the Stronglift's videos and reading the articles on form, and getting a knowledgable friend to check your form. (this does not take much time, just an hour or two, and you don't have to do it all at once)

You can avoid injuries by starting light and working on your form as you add on weight. If you follow Stronglifts you shouldn't have an issue. I did it for 2 years and was previously totally untrained (no previous lifting experience). With 3x a week I made some serious progress. Additionally, strength training will increase the amount of muscle on your body, while decreasing the amount of fat (depending on your diet), so you'll look *hotter*.

### Diet

I am no expert on diet, and there are many debates over what is healthy, mainly make sure to limit your caloric intake (so that you don't gain weight), and to lose weight if you are overweight. I recommend looking into fasting, as it seems to be a useful tool if used properly. HOWEVER PLEASE TALK TO YOUR DOCTOR, AND NOTE THAT FASTING CAN HAVE HUGE EFFECTS ON HOW YOU SHOULD BE DOSING MEDICATIONS.

I also suggest focusing on eating foods with less added sugar, making sure you get your proper daily intake of nutrition. If you want to lose weight, cutting out any beverage that is not water can make a huge difference. Additionally, eating foods that fill you up can help you eat less, since you will be satiated.

Note: if you start lifting, make sure you eat enough, otherwise it will stunt your progress

### Sleep

Sleep is something that very many people vastly overlook. Getting 7-8 hours of sleep a night is essential for your physical health, emotional wellbeing, and especially for your productivity. Productivity is not a function of hours in times some constant is equal to productivity. Productivity has many factors including your state of mind, how clear your head is, are you actually able to sit down and work to get started. You may gain 2 hours in the day by sleeping 6 hours a night, or gain 4 hours by sleeping 4 hours a night, but you will murder your productivity and health not only in the long run, but in the short run.

Two weeks of getting 6 hours a night is like having a 0.08% BAC, the legal limit. Also staying up for 18 hours consecutively produces similar effects. Sleeping less may be okay for one night at a time, but if you do it every night, you will be less productive, despite having more hours to work.

A very small percentage of the population can manage getting by with less than 7-8 hours, but they are a tiny minority. About 1-5% of the population, I forget the exact statistic. YOU ARE PROBABLY NOT IN THAT GROUP.

College kids, and people in general like to brag about how little sleep they get. Don't be like them, get a healthy amount of sleep. You'll come out ahead in the long run.

Sleep is especially important the nights before exams.

Additionally, try to go to bed at the same time, and wake up at the same time every morning, including weekends.

No blue light before bed, preferably no screens at all. Try reading a book. :)

### Social (activity)

Believe it or not social activity is important to good health. I happened to ignore this for many years, because I tend to isolate myself when I am busy and stressed, and figure I can get more done by staying in my room for days at a time. Social interaction during the day is good, but taking time to get away from your room/routine also does good, especially if you can go to a game night, or concert, or whatever with friends. I don't know exactly what the research says about frequency, but I'd suggest trying to do something at least once a week for a couple of hours. By this, I mean do something outside of normal mingling and gossiping at your workplace, before and after classes, etc.

Social accountability is another powerful tool that will help you. If you can get your friends to be disappointed in you when you don't study properly, or do something you're supposed to do, like exercise, it will be a massive deterrent against doing things poorly. Additionally, finding an exercise buddy can be useful to help you blow off steam, and to encourage you to exercise when you don't want to.

A large part of college is the developing of social relationships, even though you may not be told this going in. Take time to date, meet new people, join clubs, try new things. You will likely not have many of the same opportunities again

Don't hang out with people who are going to get you to do stupid things, and who don't have any ambitions, they _will_ drag you down with them. It doesn't matter if they are good people at heart.

On the flip side, if you hang out with hardworking and successful people, they will encourage you to work harder, and you'll see what helps them succeed. After college they'll be helpful to help you network.

I seriously regret not spending more time with people in college, my mental health would've been better, and I would have likely had better grades as a result, hell maybe even a girlfriend, or some fun stories to tell.

### Dating

**_Never again in life will you be surrounded by so many attractive peers, who are generally open to  many with high ambition. Make use of this opportunity._**

However, keep in a mind, a good relationship may improve your life a little bit, but a bad one will make it much worse, in other words, get out of bad relationships as fast as you can, and preferably stay away from toxic individuals.

## Grades

My original response was to someone who asked about getting a 4.0 in college. My response was, don't focus on an arbitrary target, so much as making sure you use your time wisely. If you are trying to get into medical/law/dental or other professional schools, or into graduate school, having a good GPA is important. However, there are things to consider about GPA.

Say getting a 2.5 GPA takes 10 hours a week of studying, 3.0 takes 15 hours a week, 3.5 takes 25 hours a week, and a 3.75 takes 40 a week, and maybe a 4.0 takes 50 hours a week. Diminishing returns start to kick in heavily. What if you spent that time doing research, or interning, or in clubs and activities that help you build your network. Hell, maybe you could start your own company. Outside of getting into graduate school or a professional program, your GPA won't really matter past your first job. That being said, I'd shoot for at least a 3.0-3.5. (these numbers are 100% made up, find the balance that works for you and your goals)

Find the balance between schoolwork and research, internships, and clubs or other activities. The balance point will be different for everyone.

Your connections, will matter for the rest of your life, as your friends start to move from company to company, and as some of them climb corporate ladders and start their own companies. These connections will get you farther than an extra .25 on your GPA ever would.

**Do not beat yourself up over bad grades**, if you do this you will increase your chances of developing depression. Focus on managing your time effectively. If you manage your time effectively and do not receive the grades you want, it sucks, but it's okay. You can only do so much, and if you are making the most of your time you should be proud of yourself. Continual improvement is more important than perfection. Consistency is also very good.

Consider trying to develop good relationships with a handful of professors who you will use as references for jobs, recommendation letters, etc. It is especially useful if you do research or other non-coursework related activities with them, as they will get to see more of who you really are, and your work ethics.

### Studying

There are effective, and ineffective ways to study and complete coursework. Start off by _going to class_, it'll really make a difference even if you don't think you're learning much. Go and take notes by hand. Taking notes by hand is the most effective way to make sure you're internalizing the information from the lectures.Additionally, ask questions in class, and go to office hours, it doesn't matter if you feel like an idiot, your understanding of the course material is more important than what your classmates think. Most of the time other people in the class have the same question. If you're too afraid to ask during class, go to office hours (this is also a good chance to develop a relationship with professors).

Reading the textbook can be useful for some classes, but not so much for others.

Do homework. Homework gives you practice, and practice makes you better at remembering material, and using complex problem solving abilities. The more you develop problem solving abilities, the easier any question will become.

[This video] is a good source for evidence based studying techniques.

My advice is to trying and make connections between all the concepts in your mind, and how they relate, this will enable you to remember things you forget through related information, or may make you able to reconstruct a piece of information from other pieces of information. This technique has been useful to me many times. People often waste lots of time using rote memorization, but if a question on an exam is slightly different than something they expect, they'll be totally lost, whereas someone who understands the concepts well can adjust quickly, and digest the information.

I did disproportionately well on many exams despite my sometimes lackluster performance on homework. I believe it was due to my focusing on understanding of concepts, and not memorizing problem solutions.**Dumb songs, acronyms and other mnemonic techniques will make things easier to remember, even if they sound stupid.**

On exams I start at the beginning, and when I get stuck on a question, I stop and move on to the next one, often times a solution to something I was previously stuck on will come to me eventually. It is also good to look at all the questions on an exam before starting so you think about them in the back of your head. I don't know if this is pseudoscience, but it works well for me.

Study over weeks, don't cram the night before an exam. Also, make sure you get plenty of sleep the night before an exam, it doesn't matter how much you studied if your brain is functioning at 25% capacity because you didn't sleep before the exam. Get 8 hours.If you're interested in learning to master your memory, check out ""Moonwalking with Einstein"". Anyone can train their memory to memorize lots of things quickly, which can be useful for some classes (and less useful for concept based classes). However, this will take time. I have not tried practicing the techniques, but it is an interesting and worthwhile read.

I suggest figuring out every class you want and are required to take, and make a timeline of when you'll be taking them. Maybe you'll see if you can dual degree or double major, it's much easier to do now than in a few years. Classes will get harder (probably).

You might consider taking a few classes in different disciplines in order to make sure you want to stay in your major, it'll make switching easier if you have a few classes done.

Or, consider doubling down and finishing your classes a year early so you can graduate, or maybe start taking graduate classes and do lots of research.

Take breaks from homework and spread out assignments, sometimes going to bed and then looking at the assignment in the morning will make a difference. Try to do them as soon as they are assigned (assuming you have been taught all you need to do them). This gives you more time to reach out to professors and TA's, and time to put them away when you get stuck.

",47,654,269.2016019510423,college
"Roommate woke up in hospital with no recollection of the night, including drinking. Was he drugged?","He feels fine now which is why i don’t think he got QB sneaked or anything... He can handle his alcohol and has never blacked out like that or woke up in a hospital. Is it possible he was slipped something, or is it more likely he just drank a fuck ton and someone brought him to a hospital thinking he was really fucked up?

only reason why i’m entertaining the idea he got drugged is because he’s not hungover... just confused as to where his night went. 

Thanks for the help

EDIT: Sounds like he just drank too much from your comments, thanks everyone for the advice.",66,660,11.358129728820037,college
Tips From Someone Who's Graduating Soon,"Alright so it's finally my senior year and I'm gonna give you my college cheat codes: 

1. Try to sparse out your classes throughout the week. Nowadays some schools follow the MW and TTH rule, meaning like some classes might be on Monday and Wednesday while others will be Tuesday and Thursday. Unless if you are working, try not to schedule your classes all on the same days, especially your first year. The reason being is you're gonna wanna skip, and when you do skip you'll find yourself skipping ALL the courses. Scheduling two courses a day gives you an even flow for college with breaks in between. 
2. Understand how your classes work and how YOU work. Some classes mark participation points and can take a heavy toll on your grade. Other classes don't count participation but offer a lot of material. Use these to your advantage and make sure when you skip classes you know the repercussions. 
3. You're gonna be tempted to eat at the dining hall everyday and drink all the soda from the soda fountain, but pace yourself. Its not healthy to live on soft drinks and pizza. GET A MINI FRIDGE. PUT SOME SALADS IN IT. BUY FUCKING WATER. 
4. Toilet paper is a necessity you won't think about until you run out of it. In the even that you do run out and don't have cash to spare most dorms have a public bathroom in their lobby and usually are accessible at all times. It's a pain in the ass but a good contingency plan 
5. If you're doing horrible in your classes: communicate with your professors early on. Don't just drop the class or continue to flunk. Usually professors understand that some students are going to have a hard time pacing themselves and are willing to work with you if you reach out to them early on. 
6. If you are in the middle of the semester and you feel like you're going to fail a class, speak with you academic adviser and see if you can take it pass/fail. Usually you need a legitimate reason for this (disability, sickness, financial troubles), but showing your academic adviser that you're serious about your goals will make them more willing to help you
7. Remember not everyone has the stereotypical college experience as you see in movies and TV, and that not every college experience is the same. Personally I had to take breaks in between semesters, transfer my courses to a different university, change majors a few times, take part time courses, take summer courses, work part time and go to school full time, and work full time and go to school full time. College should be taken at your own pace based on YOUR needs. If you can't afford it, its okay to take a break and work to save up the money. If you realize you aren't in the right path, its OK to change majors. ",77,658,323.9105139880793,college
"Is this email to my professor appropriate? I've been docked for the tiniest things on every assignment so far this semester, and these two I feel are unwarranted.",,74,646,389.07211121030156,college
Professor LOST my final exam,"So I’m a 4.0 student in uni. I received a D on my final grade for an anthropology class, and was incredibly distressed and worried how this could’ve happened.
I immediately emailed my professor asking why I received this grade, a week later he responded that I never handed in the final!

It was a written take home final, I drove all the way to school and turned it in personally to him in his office on the due date, per his instructions. I bet if they checked the cameras they’d see me walking to his office, as I remember the day and time I was there. 

I emailed him back saying I was there and handed it to him personally. And followed up with an attachment of my exam. Honestly this is why all professors should utilize online submission 🙄

The only conclusive thing is that he had to have lost my final exam. Im totally fuming! What should I do if he refuses to go back and look for my exam or change my grade? ",46,648,520.3166829695607,college
Good luck to everyone who has finals in less than 8 hours and is up on reddit instead of sleeping,Virtual fist bump from one person about to fail a final to another.,44,650,675.6885000991904,college
Professor has accused me of cheating.,"Professor has accused me of cheating during online exam, by saying that I communicated with another student during exam. 

This is 100% impossible because I don’t know anyone in the class since it’s online. Should I attach my text/call logs from AT&T to prove I didn’t communicate with another student during the exam? 

I’ve even thought of attaching my data logs to prove I wasn’t using Facebook or anything else during the time period of the exam. Is this a good idea? 

He’s given me a 0 for the midterm based off of his assumption. ",67,646,193.1928403769682,college
Why does it seem like so many people are so anxious and depressed?,"Hello everyone, hope you are all having a fun finals week.

&#x200B;

I have made a discovery lately that has made me think quite a bit.  As I have become a bit more comfortable with my own insecurities and tried to talk to others it seems like a lot of my friends and people I know are terribly anxious inside and are overwhelmed by many things in our current society but NOBODY will talk about it. It seems like most people I end up talking to feel extremely insecure and overwhelmed with college life and people but everybody just puts on a facade and pretend it's okay.

&#x200B;

I know this is natural and nobody want's to look weak and maybe I am a bit naive here but it's a bit saddening to know that many people around me are just as anxious or stressed as me. Maybe it's just me and my upbringing but at my college I am curious where the realness is? I literally don't even understand people anymore and I am unsure if people are just so different and absorbed into their own world or if people actually feel like I do but don't want to admit it.

&#x200B;

I just want to understand things and not be so hard on myself in these times and I can't tell if it's just a personal problem due to my lack of experience or if everybody is kind of struggling? There's just a lot going on in life right now and so much different things to think about it and I just wonder how people balance it or maintain a balanced mindset. 

&#x200B;

Sorry if this isn't the right place to post this I just want to know how other people feel in their college experiences in their own lives and interacting with others.",225,637,311.9688820436349,college
I feel like colleges are scamming students with low-effort teaching. What can we do about it?,"This subject, I’m sure, gets us all teeming with anger. 

And the sad part is: almost all university students have been there.

When you are at University you are paying hundreds of dollars for a credit hour. I am a resident of the state my university is in, so I pay $212 for a credit hour; when I have to take a typical three credit class I am paying $636 for a class; times five for a fifteen credit semester and that comes out to $3,180. For an out of state student that means you are going to pay $10,608 for a semester and $2,151 for one credit-hour class. 

When you have a terrible teacher that’s some bullshit. 

So that’s why I am asking: where is the accountability for teachers? I know there are teacher reviews at the end of the semester but what use is that when you have already paid for the semester and have learned nothing? Why do teachers with bad reps amongst the student body continue to teach? 

Students, why are we just letting this happen? 

And what can we do to stop it?

I want to call out my university, The University of Florida, out on some bullshit. Why are these teachers who put no effort into their classes allowed to teach? 

I want to do something but I don’t know what you should do to effectively end this! 

(Like I said, I know there are lecturer reviews at the end of the semester but I don’t think these are really being acted upon. There are teachers with bad reps at my school amongst the student body.)

How can I make sure I am not being taken advantage of (more than usual lol) by my university?",127,631,395.1676783399311,college
College Financial-Aid Loophole: Wealthy Parents Transfer Guardianship of Their Teens to Get Aid,,151,635,79.33333806215336,college
"Just cried in front of my professor for half an hour, now what","I couldn’t get a grip on an assignment; no idea what to do. I’m passing this class but really struggling in others. I had to ask for an extension and cried like a baby. I didn’t want to but The tears started flowing and I couldn’t stop it. I don’t think I can go back to their class now, please pray for me",88,631,358.28455333993116,college
What did you FORGET to bring to the dorms your freshman year?,,226,631,57.41418296956078,college
My guide to a 4.0,"**Background:**

I graduated somewhat recently in physics and applied maths with a cumulative GPA of 4.00. I've seen a lot of posts here on r/college over the last few years of people freaking out over their grades and/or looking for advice on how to do well, and maybe some of what I've learnt could help others. Obviously, this stuff is aimed towards STEM since that's all I really know, but general tips map over to the humanities. These tips are in no particular order, just whatever comes into my head. Most are probably (very) obvious, and it's long. I've also TA'd for numerous classes, so if you have more specific questions r.e. maths or physics study or heading into grad for either, I can answer in comments or PM. This is certainly not an exclusive list, it's just a general one.

tldr: 

 - Go to class

 - Pay attention in class

 - Do the work

 - Put effort into the work

 - Plan ahead

 - Read the goddamn syllabus

 - Get help early

 - If you need accommodations, get them

 - Be nice to the professor

 - Be extra nice to the department administrator/receptionist/etc

 - Study to the tests/exams

 - Don't say you'll do better ""next time""

 - Know how you learn best

 - Have your priorities straight

 - Be prepared to let it all go


--------

**Go to class**.

It shouldn't need to be said, but there it is. Even if the class is boring as all hell and you think you already know it all, go anyway. Some classes take attendance, some give pop-quizzes, some offer extra material not available online or in any recordings/notes, but it's just a good idea to be present regardless. Our brains form associations really quickly, so you'll learn better in the lecture hall that you always learn in rather than sitting at the desk you regularly play computer games at. You'll also be able to ask for clarification in real time, which no recording or personal study will ever afford you. Plus, it gets you in the professors good books, or at least helps keep you out of the bad books. That's incredibly important. 

**Pay attention in class**.

Once you're there, you need to actually listen. No browsing on your phone, no checking twitter on your laptop, no chatting with your neighbours, and no work from other classes. You should be paying such ardent attention that you are exhausted at the end of a 1-hour lecture. You will undoubtedly fail occasionally, but you need to force yourself to refocus every time. Do whatever you have to in order to keep paying attention. For me, that meant always taking notes by hand even if notes were printed and handed out to us by the professor before class. I never revised by my own notes, but it was important to take them anyway. The more effort you put in to learning it the first time around, the less work you need to do outside of class.

**Do the work**.

Again, should be pretty clear why, but this is the biggest reason why people fail IME. It's actually really *hard* to fail a class if you give every assignment a proper try and hand them all in on time. Even if you know you've left it way too late and can't possibly get it completed, a half-assed 50% is magnitudes better than a 0%. 

**Put effort into the work**.

Never hand in any piece of assessment as ""good enough"". Your final-copy 5-page assignment in maths should originally be a 20-page draft when you include your additional derivations and long-working. Don't skip steps: it doesn't make you look smarter, it just makes mistakes easier. I will happily expand out factors term by term if it avoids a mistake. Do your work neatly and follow standards in setup/layout. Chicken-scratch ramblings don't get a prize; the less pleasant your work is to mark, the less lenient markers will be. Remember that there is a human marking your work, so intersperse the maths with some words explaining what you're doing and why. You can still be awarded marks for correct reasoning even if you make a foolish mathematical error somewhere. This also applies to exams and tests: if you make a mistake somewhere but can't find it or don't have time to fix it, make a note of it on the paper. If you really run out of time, list the steps you *would* have taken. That'll get you something too. Also do sanity checks on your results: you've probably made a mistake if the ball is travelling faster than c.

**Plan ahead**. 

Life is shitty, and shitty things happen unexpectedly. Maybe your car breaks down, maybe your neighbours keep you up with loud music all night, maybe your dog is sick, maybe your computer fails spectacularly, maybe the power gets cut off, and maybe you just plain forget something. Have reasonable contingencies for these sorts of events. Leave a little earlier to account for any delays in travel, finish your work a day or two earlier, keep backups in multiple places, email yourself copies of important documents, set copious alarms, and have some kind of planner. Know when difficult weeks are coming up and start things earlier than usual to reduce workload later on. Being organised is probably the *most important* thing you can do to ensure success. Your memory and ability to react quickly and reasonably to complex situations is really not that great, so craft these safety nets ahead of time. It's enough to simply have a plan that you are aware of. Fix problems *before* they are problems. 

**Read the goddamn syllabus**.

Don't get caught out by participation marks after you've already missed half of the lectures. Know how much different sections are worth and roughly when they are due (some due dates may change). Be aware of minimum requirements, especially for lab classes. All of my classes had rules that you had to get >45% in all of the lab, homework, and exam portions in order to pass the class. If you got 70% overall but 40% in the lab portion, too bad - you fail. A syllabus is not a legally binding contract, but they are quite important nonetheless. Also, **keep the syllabus**. Partly in case you need to dispute something, but also, in some situations when transferring credits, universities will ask for the syllabus from your classes to judge equivalency. They are usually required to be from the correct semester/year as well IME, so no sneakily grabbing a newer one.

**Get help early**.

If you struggle to understand something in week 1, get help for it in week 1. Not week 2 and not week 13, *week 1*. Your problem with the content doesn't go away once the class moves on, it just starts festering under the surface and jeopardising everything you learn past that point. This also applies to mental health or other extreme personal circumstances. Professors and administrators can do a lot to help you early on in semester with medical withdrawals and the like, but they can't do much at all to help past a certain point. Don't look at asking for help as ""begging"", but rather as taking agency over your own learning and your own life, and recognising when you need more information/support to work at your best. You cannot control what happens to you, but you *can* control how you deal with it. 

**If you need accommodations, get them**.

If you know you have ADHD or are prone to mental illness like Depression, get the required documentation and get accommodations from your university. It isn't some dick-measuring contest to see how long you can go without your meds and there's no gold star for foregoing all treatment. University life is *tough* for a lot of people. If you try to go it alone and fail, *you* are the one who suffers from that sort of hubris. I had accommodations for issues with concentration and processing speed. My internals and labs were great, but my early tests were consistently 20% lower; having accommodations simply levelled the playing field and made my grades more regular. Real life is not like an exam and you do not need to sit under the same conditions. If you need an extra 30 minutes or a quiet room to work in, get it. Having these accommodations can also help with requests for extensions or leniency in marking if you suddenly fall ill. It certainly saved my ass a few times. 

**Be nice to the professor**.

(Assuming they're a reasonable human being, of course) In many classes, the professor has a lot of power. They set the rules of their class and they are also free to bend those rules as they see fit. If the professor likes you, they may give you an extension when you're stressed out or simply forget homework, will invest more time and energy into your learning, offer you extra opportunities in their field, act as great letter writers later on, and simply be a great addition to your network. Many of the things I achieved during undergrad came from my contacts with professors, who then pointed me towards friends with good opportunities in national labs and prestigious universities. The person with the personal contact wins every time. 

**Be extra nice to the department administrator/receptionist/etc**.

Professors are actually kinda clueless when it comes to the running of the department, but the local head administrator knows all. Befriend the person who's actually in charge and you'll never be stuck in endless loops of administration bullshit ever again. Hiring opportunities inside *and* outside of the department flow through this person first, as do many applications afterwards. Forms you need to fill out will pass this point as well, and they are often the ones with a tight hold on the money-strings. They also know their equivalent in other departments, and can get you priority meetings/appointments. They are typically well-known and very well-liked, and their seal of approval on you carries weight. 

**Study to the tests/exams**.

Don't do 100 problems out of a dusty textbook your professor has never used as the format and method of solution will be slightly different. When you're first learning something, using multiple distinct methods can throw you off and you gain nothing from the exercise. Look at previous exams if available through your library to get a feel for the general format, as questions tend to be similar over the years. If these are not available, then use previous questions set to you or other questions from the same pool. Study strategically to match. 

**Don't say you'll do better ""next time""**.

So many of my friends would get 60% in an assignment, brush it off immediately, and say they'd just make up for it next week. They never did. Assume your grades will *decline* over the course of the semester as you become stressed and burnt out, so put effort in early. If you get a poor mark, organise to discuss your mistakes with the professor ASAP. For the next assignment, ask to have it checked a day or two *before* you submit it. Professors and TAs are usually more than happy to review drafts of substantial work before submission, you just need to ask and be willing to hear criticism. It is not an attack on your character, they are literally just telling you what you need to do to earn a higher grade by the rubric they have. 

**Know how you learn best**.

If you do your best work between 7pm-9pm, then save tough things for that time. If you find it hard to get up and pay attention in 8am classes, try to avoid signing up for classes at that time. If you know which professors teach to the style you like to learn in, take their section if available and suitable. But always be reassessing these methods. If the evidence of your results isn't backing up your statements, you need to figure out what's going wrong and fix it ASAP. Keep your fingers on the pulse at all times and be ready to adapt. 

**Have your priorities straight**.

Know how important your grades are to you from the beginning and stick to that. After a terrible run in high school, I decided that I wouldn't settle for any kind of mediocrity and whenever I lost focus, I reminded myself of that goal. Don't say that you want top grades and then act completely opposite to that statement. But don't go too far the other way either: if you get to the end of your degree and have nothing but a 4.0, then you've wasted a lot of your time. You need to have experience in your field and other things going for you. Know what is important/necessary and what is not for your specific goals and living situation. If you need a supermarket job to pay the bills, keep it. If you really don't need the money, find something more constructive and relevant to do with your time. 

**Be prepared to let it all go**.

Getting ""good"" grades is a matter of effort, planning, and natural aptitude in some measure. Graduating with a 4.0 specifically is pure luck. Even a headache on the day of an important exam can send things down the drain, and no matter how well you plan ahead, random events *will* affect you. I failed in plenty of the above tips over the last 3 years. I skipped out on weeks of classes because I thought I knew everything, I didn't plan ahead properly and had horrible all-nighters, I tried to get through without disability accommodations, I allowed myself to get so ill as to not hand in assignments, and I crammed for exams. Blind luck and the curve pulled me through every time, but it could easily not have. Finishing with a 4.0 is nice, getting that sweet medal is cool, but it means next to nothing the day after grades are released. After you land that first position, it really won't mean anything at all. Keep the achievement in perspective and don't lose sight of the things that really matter at this point in your life, whatever that point is. But if you want that 4.0 just as a personal goal and keep sight of everything else, don't let people dissuade you from it or convince you that you should care less. If you want to set the bar high, make sure it's feasible but then hold yourself to it. ",80,634,658.4802593584496,college
Community College is NOT Always the Best Option.,"I’ve seen a lot of people here suggest that if you don’t go to community college for two years, you are making a stupid decision since there are absolutely no downsides. According to them, every single person should go to community college first.

Community college can be an amazing option for many people, but it is NOT as black and white as many of you make it seem.

Here are just some potential negatives of going to community college

- If you want to go in to a field that values prestige (say, finance) you will have a very difficult time getting internships your first two summers. In fact, most big banks now recruit Junior summer interns during their sophomore spring, so make that your first three summers. That will seriously impact career prospects out of school. Also, contrary to what some may adamantly say, almost every field values prestige to an extent. 

- Even if you only want to apply for an internship Junior year, employers will likely not like the fact that you only have a semester (or less) of grades to show at your school.

- Networking is an important part of college. You are missing out on a lot of important opportunities to cultivate friendships your first two years if you aren’t even there until Junior year.

- Will be very difficult to gain leadership positions in student organizations coming in as a third year.

So, the reality is, Community Colleges are an invaluable asset to many students, but there ARE downsides. I feel that students are being misled by people on here claiming that there is absolutely no reason to not go to community college.



",194,633,459.35040982141265,college
The 3 types of professors,"All professors can be divided into one of three categories.

The rarest and most precious are the teachers: these special creatures actually want to be the best teacher they can be and throw themselves into their work. We love them for it and they know it.

Next are the ethical professors:
These special people put equal work into their research and their teaching because they are at the school to do research, but they know they owe their students the best education for their dollar.

Finally there is the slacker:
This miserable bastard is at the school for one reason. They want to indulge in a life of research and will (begrudgingly) spend a semester milking a class for tuition money with a bare bones, half assed curriculum. ",60,620,263.4455487103015,college
Does anyone else feel like some students make college a lot harder than it really is?,"*So before I go further into this post, college can be super challenging and different schools/majors require a different workload.  I understand that college can legitimately be the hardest time of your life.  This purpose of this post is not to attack or single anyone out.  I suffer from several different learning disabilities and have experienced some of the challenges that many students face.*

In high school, I was a C student at best, and honestly, it was touch and go if I would even attend university.  After hearing many horror stories from older students I entered my freshman year terrified. I thought for sure I would fail every class, but I actually found it to be super easy. For the last four semesters, I have faced some challenging times but nothing on the level that other students complain about. I hear these stories about students staying all night for multiple nights during the week, or stories about students having total meltdowns during dead week and I get a bit puzzled. Like I said above these are all very real valid things that occur on college campuses, but I personally feel like some students make it a bit harder for themselves than it has to be. From my experience, I have noticed that even at my (and a lot of my classmates who I have discussed this with)  worst if we apply ourselves most assignments are very manageable. I feel like the elitist stigma we currently have regarding college creates a lot of unneeded anxiety for new students. Throughout high school, we are constantly trained to succeed at standardized tests that require you to over think.  I think this conditioning is extremely dangerous, and that for a large percentage of students overthinking is actually a bigger enemy to their education than even the most challenging of courses. I made a 19 on my ACT and finished high school with a 2.7-ish. I now have a 3.5 in college, and I feel like not being prepped for standardized testing has actually helped me.  My question here is do any of you agree or have similar experiences?  It has been very hard for me to find students who can relate to my experience.

Edit: I think a lot of the negative comments just read the title and nothing else. I want to state once again that elements of college can be overwhelming and challenging. Struggles and break downs are ALL valid.  Once again the purpose of this post was to share how I feel over thinking and elitist culture affects students.",143,617,186.5833727843756,college
It's true,,16,624,1043.7722269510423,college
Incoming freshman schedule and advice megathread,"Want advice on your schedule? Want to know what you should bring?  Want to know if you can bring a dog as long as you name it “Fish”?  Here’s your megathread. 

H/T u/literallyblack",1508,620,138.95775935844966,college
"No ""true"" freinds, only situational. Is this normal?","Lately I realized that I don't really have all that many real friends, people that I can hang out with regularly, and that the vast majority of friends are situational, such as from club meetings but nothing outside of that. I just get the vibe that people are way more superficial nowadays, and even if I try to make long-lasting friends, it's not reciprocated. I'm wondering if any of you can relate, and if this is just how it is in college, unlike in high school? ",58,616,263.8390093584497,college
What to do when a professor refuses to accommodate student disabilities????,"I have a learning disability--I have a pretty severe stutter and an auditory processing disorder, so I go through my community college's Disability Center to get academic accommodations that allow me:

\*extra time on exams

\*a note-taker

\*recordings of lectures

\*reduced weight on public speaking assignments (because of the stutter)

&#x200B;

I have a professor who has completely refused to accommodate this. No extra time on exams because... Idk, she just likes making arbitrary rules. No note-takers because ""your notes should be your own"". No recordings of lectures because ""I don't want to be put on Youtube"". No reduced weight on public speaking because ""your professors at four-year universities won't cut you any slack"". 

&#x200B;

So, she's giving me Fs on everything. I have not been understanding things in class because I don't have note-taking assistance or recordings of the lectures to refer back to (if a professor is iffy on one, they usually allow the other and so I at least have ONE method of self-help). I filed an exam request at the Disabled Center anyway, and she wouldn't sign it, so I got a C- on the exam. I knew all the questions, I just felt so rushed, I couldn't do my best. And I've failed a public speaking assignment BECAUSE of my stutter. 

&#x200B;

I dropped the class, resulting in a W on my transcript. I'm kind of pissed because that W might hurt me when I go to transfer to a four-year university or apply for grad school. I have an appointment with my counselor at the Disabled Center next week, but is there anything I can do about that W? Should I file a grievance? I'm really lost.",74,610,237.11406722882003,college
My grade went from an almost perfect A+ to a D within two days...,"I had an A+ for a graduate-level computer science course for 13 and a half weeks. We're assigned a couple of easy assignments for the class. I'm talking, 2 hours of work for an easy A+ on the assignment. The professor says that it is due at the end of next week (As in, the end of finals week)

&#x200B;

I have a lot of classes and a lot of finals, multiple back to back and classes I need to do well in, so I spend all my time studying. I'll do that homework Friday afternoon, as I have 3 back to back to back finals that day, including this computer science course.

&#x200B;

So I take the exams, do the homework, turn it all in, and go about my day.

&#x200B;

Suddenly, my final grade comes back as a D. Apparently 'end of finals week' meant 'end of this class', as in friday morning. I missed 15% of a final grade of piss-easy homework because of this.

&#x200B;

Perhaps more annoying is that, despite the final, being worth just 10% of the final grade, and 15% of the final grade being lost, I'm somehow at a D. Even if I got a 0 on the exam, I would still have at least a C. The professor is not replying to emails, since they're moving to a new college this summer.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Can I do anything about this? It's just so frustrating because I desperately need to raise my major GPA to graduate and after busting my ass to aim for an A/AB to raise it I get smacked with this and my grade just plummets...",23,609,146.35693759919042,college
Am I the only one who can’t do online textbooks?,"If a textbook is heavily used in a particular class, I need to get myself a hard copy. I don’t know why, but online textbooks make it somehow harder to focus. Just me? ",122,606,261.30852324733854,college
College Pro Tip: Be sure to write down all the MAC addresses of your devices on your schools network. If someone ever steals that device and uses it again on the schools network your IT department can instantly track its location with the MAC address,,48,609,604.2503866732645,college
Is it bad to change your mind and stay at home for college when you’ve told everyone you’re leaving?,,71,609,51.42120843252374,college
Professor raised a concern that I might have plagiarized my last paper,"In one my classes (I don't want to risk someone from her looking back in my post history to figure out it's me so I won't say the subject but I will say it's a gen ed class) we recently had to write a research paper. We picked the topic and had to make a at minimum 5 page paper using 4 sources (1 having to be a psychical book) that we found. 

The papers were assigned at the beginning of the semester and we were allowed to resubmit the paper to get a better grade (if we chose). Last week on Monday I submitted my copy of the paper to see what my professor thought and to see what needed to be worked on it. He handed back papers yesterday (Monday the 15th) and asked me to stay after class to talk with him, I am doing well in the class (B/A or 3.5) so I didn't think anything of it and that maybe he just wanted to discuss a critique in person to get his point across. 

He handed me my paper and said ""the language and style you used in this paper is not something I normally see out of a college student, like this wasn't typed out by a person if you know what I mean, it doesn't feel or look right to me, I am not going to jump to any conclusions but my two thoughts are either you plagiarized this paper or your a really above average writer."" I was shocked, speechless actually. Some backstory (if this helps at all) I wrote a another paper for the same class and professor earlier in the semester and got a 4.0 on it, same language of writing, same style of writing, same everything. 

He gave me the paper back and said ""here, look it over and see what you can do to it, I don't really want to report you for plagiarism or give a 0 for this assignment.""

I took the paper back and took it home with me, stared at it and was just like ""what the fuck was that?""

I reviewed the paper for plagiarism on Grammarly and it came back with a 4% match, I am so confused now.

What did my professor see that I didn't? Is my writing style really that ""odd""

I'd like to hear what you guys/gals think.",47,609,184.23178713622744,college
I overslept through my 8AM Chemistry,"I hope this doesn’t sound too stupid, but this morning I overslept through my chemistry class that starts at 8. I’ve never had a problem with this in the past, but this morning I woke up at 8:45 and the class ends at 9:15. I felt that it was not worth going, as by the time I had gotten to the class it would’ve been over. 

I thought it would be best to email her and apologize for missing lecture, and that I look forward to next class. However, I’m worried that this will look worse on me, considering I didn’t miss a test or a quiz. I have also already gotten the notes from class today.

My professors attendance policy is that there are no make-up quizzes, make up tests for excused absences, and that regular attendance is expected.

Is it worth emailing my professor at this point, or should I just move on?",61,605,9.37728482141263,college
"Being at home doesn’t feel like home anymore, but being at school doesn’t feel like home either.",,48,605,578.893905191783,college
Am I wrong for not wanting my roommate to have his boyfriend over the room during finals week?,"Just for background, my roommate went through a rough breakup over the summer, and it truly brought out the worst in him. He skipped class in order to sleep in all day. He self-harmed. He became desperate for companionship and tried to pursue relationships not only with borderline strangers, but also members of our close-knit friend group. All in all, it was a very uncomfortable thing to witness all year.

&#x200B;

Recently, he's met a guy on Tinder from the next state over, and things have been moving fast for them. They're planning on meeting up, barring the difficulties that come from the fact that neither of them have cars never mind their licenses. Overall, I'm happy for him, if not for one thing; numerous times when they call, my roommate has repeatedly said that they're guaranteed to have the room to themselves whenever they want, and that he has no issue kicking me out. 

&#x200B;

If it were at any other point in the semester, I really wouldn't mind and I would happily give them their privacy. But this upcoming Monday marks the first day of finals week. I don't so much mind giving them a couple of hours to themselves as I could just go to the library, but I'm not keen on sleeping at a friend's room the night before a final.

&#x200B;

Any advice on how to talk to my roommate about it? I basically want to affirm that I am genuinely happy that he found someone new, but I'm not about to place his relationship before my final grades.",46,603,175.30182185844967,college
Not-So-Obvious Dorm Essentials,"Wondering some things you've brought to your dorm/apartment that have actually ended up being really clutch, going into my senior year and want to make sure my room is kitted nice.",165,595,69.4219838954867,college
Underrated college dorm supplies?,,257,600,102.27087278437558,college
Is it just me or does college go by 4x faster than highschool,2018 is just around the corner,41,599,704.2693450065979,college
My Roommate Keeps bringing over a guy and it’s too much now..,"Okay so to basically sum up how this started, the first time she brought him over was apparently to do some kind of interview thing for one of her classes and she had asked me to leave, but it was more along the lines of “yeah, you’re going to have to get out soon”. I didn’t care at first since I was going out to eat with some kids on my floor in my dorm, but when I got back to the room at 2am he was still there..asleep on her bed. 

I didn’t exactly shrug it off and expressed my concerns hoping I wouldn’t have to have another situation like that...until the next day when she brings him over again while I’m trying to help a friend with some chemistry work and guess what, he slept over again. This is two times she’s brought him over without letting me know and with no time to prepare I couldn’t find the right time to go shower or get changed. I told her once again if she could let me know when she is bringing people over. She said ok.

Tonight though.. I walk in and see him shirtless getting a massage from one of her friends while they talk about having a threesome but she said she wouldn’t because she’s una loyal relationship. I was hoping they would leave after watching the movie so I could finish my work but..they’re sleeping over and this is now the 3rd time in a row that she has let this happen without telling me ahead of time that she was having people over, sleeping over at that. And now there is a shirtless guy that I’m not exactly comfortable with because I don’t know him in our shared room and another girl in the room as well. I’m fed up with it and I don’t know where to go from here. 

tl;dr: Roommate brings random guy over 3rd time in a row without telling me in advance. He always ends up sleeping over.

Edit: Thank you everyone for giving me some advice on to what I should do. I’ll start talking to her about it.",68,599,42.77975009919041,college
Can you ask a professor to talk to a student who keeps interrupting class?,"In one of my classes, there is a woman I will call Jane. Jane is in her 60s and is attending classes at my university through a program that allows seniors to take courses for free, basically for fun (they can’t earn a degree through this program). It has been my experience that these students tend to be more talkative and less aware of classroom etiquette, which is understandable because they haven’t been in school in a long time. It has never been a problem for me in any other classes. 

Jane is different. She interrupts constantly. Our professor is laid back, he tells lots of jokes and anecdotes and allows open discussion. But she cuts into literally almost every sentence he says, she interrupts other students when they are talking, she completely derails conversations with her own unrelated stories or questions. She makes inappropriate jokes while the professor is trying to teach. She “whispers” very loudly to the students around her during lectures. She’s not being malicious, she just doesn’t seem to understand when it’s not appropriate for her to be talking - she thinks she’s the class clown making everyone laugh with her outbursts and jokes but they usually just make everyone annoyed and uncomfortable (for example, she makes many jokes about finding the young black men in our class to be really hot every time they talk - she’s an old white woman). She’s very disruptive and the class is moving at a snail’s pace mainly due to her interruptions, but shockingly the professor has done nothing other than shoot her annoyed looks from time to time. 

Sorry for the long background, but my question is, would it be wrong for me to ask him to talk to her? She’s not just annoying me, she’s actually hurting our ability to learn in this class. Other students have been complaining about the same things. I’m not saying she shouldn’t be allowed to join discussions or ask questions, I just want him to ask her to tone it down or be more considerate about how much class time she takes up/allowing other students to talk. But I don’t know if that is inappropriate or if it would make me an asshole. I don’t want to form a bad reputation with this professor. Should I talk to him or just suck it up? ",42,594,258.29516676585706,college
My Grades Do Not Reflect My Effort or Confidence,"Midterms absolutely rocked me. I was an A+ student in high school. I was going strong with all my projects, homework, lab reports, etc. I studied hours every day. I went into my midterms with complete confidence. But two of my midterms were shockingly below average. A 71% in Calculus and a 64% in Chem. It's not an unfixable situation, but I don't know what I did wrong. Walking into and out of the exam room, I felt completely confident in getting an A. I had studied a week in advance for both tests. I went into office hours frequently. I pay attention during lecture. I do the homework. I don't understand what I did wrong?

I'm not asking for a miracle solution. I just want tips from people who may have been in the same situation.

Edit: Thanks to everyone who gave helpful comments (which is just about everyone). I'm writing down everything you guys are telling me and preparing for my Chem midterm next week.

Edit #2: I took another Chem Midterm and got a 90. I took a lot of the advice on here to heart. I prepared a week in advance, so I had questions for my recitation teacher. Then as it got closer I began a study group where I taught other students in my dorm who were also really struggling. The last step was just hard studying. Thank you to everyone who helped and for the people of the future, keep at it.",84,600,342.2704098214126,college
Who else has gotten to a point where you are floating by the semester?,"Got a semester of general ed's, floating on by.

I've just been doing the assignments and whatever needed and haven't really studied. Still making good A's and B's. Have no clue what's going on in the class? I guess I do because of my B on the exam :/",102,590,205.33402093252374,college
"Professor doesn’t allow us to ask questions in class, should I go to the department chair?","I’m in a managerial stats class right now, super basic, and my professor is awful. It isn’t just me, the whole class is struggling. The class average on our last test was a 35, and the overall class average is a 55. She doesn’t allow us to ask any sort of questions in class and we are all so lost. She snapped at a student who raised their hand the other day and told him to come to office hours. It’s like she can’t plan out her class time and needs to fit everything from start to end. Today she started class five minutes early and yelled at students who were ‘late’ even tho they were on time by university standards. Should I contact the department chair?",51,585,171.26289824733854,college
Have you ever put more effort in a class but still got a poor grade anyway?,"Cause it happened to me. I got three A’s and a C even though I put the most effort in that C class. I didn’t think any class would be hard as long as I put in enough effort, but I was wrong!! ",94,592,297.64214593252376,college
"So is this legal ? If not, what are my options ?",,47,582,709.0440093584497,college
Does anybody else ever feel relatively stupid?,"A friend asked to see my schedule and her response was “omg you must be so smart taking these classes” ... (Organic II, MicroBio, Calc 1, Life-Span Development, Chem Research) 

The only response that came to mind was “I’m smart enough to realize that I’m dumb”. There is so much I still do not know and when I hear upperclassmen talk about their thermodynamics class, or advanced biochem or diff. Equations I can’t help but feel inadequate.

I’m genuinely terrified and I don’t know of what.

Can anybody relate? ",54,581,267.12600009919043,college
Orientation Sucked,"I made a ton of new friends, got a huge amount of snapchats and Snapchat groups and really enjoyed most of the people I met. However, I felt so alone. I felt like that school wasn’t for me and that I was an outsider. I’m not sure if it’s because all the staff and leaders put on this face, or that the only time you could have conversation was during meaningless icebreakers, but I just felt lost. I felt like I chose the wrong school. It was that “vibe” but I’m not sure if I should trust it. 

Is that just how orientation is? I want to believe that it is just kind of a facade and that real life college will actually be great, but that feeling is really sticking on to me.",122,579,83.90925241400522,college
Was my sociology class mean for laughing at my friend's religion.,"Back in 2010 I remember taking sociology 101.  We had about 30-40 students in our class.  Our professor did an anonymous survey to show how diverse we were.  The survey asked questions such as what race are you, what language are you fluent in, and what religion are you.  My friend wrote ""hellenism"" and that he is a big believer in the Greek gods.  When the professor announced that most of the class were christians,muslims, and atheist she mentioned one person believed in the Greek gods.  The class erupted in laughter.  Wsa that mean of them? Would you expect me from college students?",95,577,221.29094222882006,college
First day of college tomorrow,"I haven’t gotten any school supplies yet because I don’t know what I need, but I have the basics like pencils and pens. What should I bring on my first day of college? P.S. I’m asking you guys because I’m the first in my family to go to college so I have no one else to ask",64,581,53.01735426585707,college
Just Do It,"When I was starting my freshman year, I came directly from a homeless shelter. My advisor at the shelter told me college was a pipe dream and to get realistic because I wasn't college material. My first semester I had a 3.8 GPA. I graduated with department and national honors. My point is don't even let naysayers tell you you can't do anything. Prove them all wrong.",24,581,438.117342691783,college
Feeling conflicted about a protest at my college,A student in my lin alg class could not attend a mandatory seminar session because of her menstrual pains. The problem is that she's a trans-woman/girl and although she doesn't actually menstruate she still believes that it is her right to feel like she does. The professor rejected her excuse and not that surprisingly a lot of students feel like he should have been more sympathetic and hav organized a protest.  I'm kinda torn here. Who is in the wrong? ,99,574,374.5196227843756,college
Should I go to class an hour+ late,"So, as the title said I'm running about an hour and a half late for class. I commute 80 minutes and my alarm clock didn't go off this morning (apparently my new phone being on mute also muted the alarm).

This is my first class of senior year methodology. Should I go in halfway through the 3-hour class? 

So far I'm thinking: 
I already emailed the teacher as soon as I woke up.Hopefully if I get there before/if the class gets a break I'll talk to the teacher then.




Edit: Thank you for the input everyone!! I stood awkwardly around the half-open door (trying to gauge if I there was a seat in the back I could slip into before entering). The teacher saw me and decided to let everyone out on 5-minute break. I went in and talked to her and she was super nice about it. I don't know if I'll get attendance credit but the information from the first day was worth going late. 
Thanks again, everyone!!",34,575,273.36439130289415,college
Too much homework or bad schedule?,"Does any else feel like they don't have enough time to do the work for all their classes in a reasonable time? I'm taking 6 classes at the moment and one of them is an online math class that assigns tons of homework. I'm usually at my school from 6am to 6pm because I work there and then from 6pm to 10pm I'm usually feeding and putting my son to bed. From 10pm till 2 or 3 am I'm working on my chem homework or lab reports and major papers that feel like they get assigned every week.

 By the time I get what I feel to be the important work done I still have Math homework but if I work on it I will not get any sleep. The math homework is assigned and ""due"" every 3 days but it still allows you to do it after the due date so I have been getting what I can done on the weekends but I know this will not be a reasonable strategy in future classes where the due dates are solid. Any tips or is this just what college is like?",72,571,26.318858895486706,college
Weed use among students makes me incompatible,"This is a problem I've been dealing with for a while now. Although weed was common in highschool, it seems like every single person on campus smokes weed or takes some form of THC. While I've smoked weed before, I disassociate really badly and it isn't a good experience. So I don't smoke, and don't plan on it

Unfortunately, weed culture makes up a lot of what people do socially. This leads to me being an outlier, and being really different from most students. I've struggled to find friends or dates where it doesn't end up with them trying to get high. 

Does anyone have any advice for me, or experiences they can share with me so I know I'm not the only one who doesn't smoke? ",160,579,194.34785195104223,college
"Has anyone else gotten down to one or two semesters of college, realized you chose a terrible major you hate, but realized it’s too late to change?",And doing another four years would be a complete waste of money and time? I’m majoring in marketing but have only had jobs in my life in writing. I’ve taught myself graphic design and have also gotten small jobs in acting. I feel like my four years and college doing something I hate was a complete waste.,51,567,173.36772463622745,college
How do you prevent yourself from getting sick when nearly everyone on campus is always sick?,I feel like it’s inevitable that I get sick at least twice a semester even if I take care to continuously wash my hands and use hand sanitizer. People are always coughing and sneezing without covering. Do I need to be taking greater precautions?,135,568,16.076868154745963,college
Alaska defunds scholarships for thousands of university students ahead of fall semester,,34,569,81.48818759919041,college
Is it normal to not talk to anyone in class for the entire semester?,,85,573,164.91499315474596,college
UNCOMMON college tips for continuing students and incoming freshman/transfer,"So I know there are a lot of post that give tips about college, academically and socially. A decent amount of those post mention a lot of the same tips/advice. After almost getting done with my junior year of college I thought I shared some tips that I don’t see on here often and just stuff to expect that most people wouldn’t(applies mainly for incoming freshman or CC transfers to uni). If any of you have any tips that aren’t super common, ex; joining clubs, studying, don’t skip class, etc., definitely comment to help out others.

1. Making a legit calendar or journal that you plan to follow saves so much stress in the long run. I see people with planners a lot but they mainly just use it to write down as a  “what to do” when ever they plan to do assignments, studying, etc., If you actually sit plan specific date and time for certain things college will go very smooth. This helps me mainly because I work and am a dj outside of college. My schedule gets crazy and I used to stress but immediately when I started doing the date and time process, things got so less stressful.

2. It’s okay to say “fuck it” a few weekends of the semester and just enjoy life rather than studying or doing college work. This may seem like bad advice but everything is good in moderation. Sometimes you just wanna say screw it and lounge around all weekend or go hang with your friends all weekend. As long as you don’t have a midterm or a major exam early in the next week, I think it’s okay and healthy to have this mentality here and there.

3. Greek life is not what everyone thinks it is.... this one is pretty common and everyone really does have their own personal experiences with fraternities/sororities so I’ll just say that Greek life for me personally was a drama oriented waste of my time. I’m not gonna sit here and say their is no benefits of Greek life because there definitely is.

4. This is the main reason I actually made this post but for all of us who didn’t have the “best” high school/past experiences, people end up talking about high school a lot more than you think they would. After being a looser, burnout, Loner type of kid, I was really excited about college because people make it seem like none of that stuff matters. Well when I got to my uni, it was not how I imagined. People talk about high school a lot but it’s mainly because thats their past and they don’t know what else to talk about and you can’t really blame them. People used to tell me “this is just a early college thing”, it’s not I’m friends with tons of upper level undergrad and even grad students that are always bringing up the good ole days. I am left out of many conversations because of this but at this point, I don’t really care anymore because that’s just life. It does suck but you have to get over it at some point.

So that’s it but definitely comment if you have any other tips or experiences that aren’t posted on this sub often. Also feed back would be great especially on 4",121,571,189.40638204363486,college
My professor hates me (advice plz),"My biochem lab professor absolutely hates me. It’s a small lab of 10 people and everyone in that lab told me that he doesn’t like me. On the first day of class he screwed up a problem on the board and I raised my hand and asked him why he did it that way then when he explained it I told him respectfully that the way he did the question is incorrect. He did not realize what was wrong so I had to walk him through it step by step on the board, which I get made him embarrassed and look like an idiot in front of the class but it’s not my fault he did the problem wrong. Since that day he has hated me. He consistently grades me harsher than all my peers and takes off points for things that others didn’t lose points for. 

Last week he screwed up an answer key for a quiz and when I told him that the key is wrong and proved to him that my answer is correct he refused to give me the points back, instead he said “I’ll just throw that question out. ” 

On another instance he took off points because he claimed I had not included my pKa value in my notebook, when I showed it to him that it was on the next page he refused to give me the points back claiming that I should’ve circled it. 


Another thing that happened today. He took off points for my notebook because he claimed I didn’t include my data. When I showed him it in my notebook he claimed that I wrote in after he handed back the notebooks. Then I showed him the same data on another page that he had also commented he was like ok and gave me back 1 of the two points. Then I asked why only 1 of the 2 then he said ok fine and gave me back both points. 

He huffed and it was one of the rudest encounters ever tbh. 



What do I do? ",57,572,240.97071074733856,college
How should I thank my professor for bumping my grade?,"I'm pretty sure I failed one of my classes this semester. I missed two tests and failed to turn in a huge presentation. Honestly, I just had no motivation to do absolutely anything. I even skipped class a few times because I was convinced that my entire class including my professor hated me. My mental health was a big factor in my performance this semester so my psychiatrist told me to email my professor asking him to give me a ""withdrawal"" from the class instead of failing me so I won't be placed on Academic Suspension. I did that and he just ended up giving me a C in the class. I don't deserve it and I don't understand why he did it but I am grateful for it. I'm so confused and don't know how I should reply to his email thanking him.",133,568,166.49220380289412,college
TIL that some college professors write student papers for money. It's fucked up that I'm struggling to teach myself history because my professor sucks...and that same guy could be writing papers for profit at night. Do you suspect any of your professors?,,79,568,381.3973658399311,college
Anyone never have family comeup for family weekend?,Kinda shitty feeling that everyone even my friends can't make time to come see me. Anyone else be alone on their family weekend?,74,562,31.434136673264483,college
Optional Homelessness for College?,"I understand this idea may seem a bit dumb, but with college housing costs going as high as 10k-15k, I have been seriously considering living in my car through college. I figure if I've got a nice van with livable space to sleep and rest, I could use the hygienic facilities offered on campus for cleaning up and the libraries and classrooms to study and work.

&#x200B;

I apologize if this post seems rude to those who have struggled through homelessness in college. This is by no means a romanticization of the situation, only an option being considered due to financial constraints. 

&#x200B;

Has anyone had experience with living in their car during college in the past, and would you consider the money saved worth the difficulty? Would colleges even allow students to live in their cars? And for context, I hope to be attending CalPoly SLO, transferring in from my local junior college. Thank you!",120,571,117.66156722882003,college
"When in a group project, make sure your partners aren’t plagiarizing","I have a group project due tomorrow. One of the group members wrote a significant portion of the report on his own while we did other work. He did it surprisingly quickly which made me feel a little uneasy but hey I don’t know how much free time he has. Earlier today I got a feeling like I should make sure he isn’t copying from someone else so that we won’t get in trouble. 

He had copied several paragraphs of the abstract from a study by MIT and just threw it in as our first 2 pages. Needless to say I’m fucking mad and we’re basically doing all his shit over again. We can’t even trust any of the work he’s done so far because of this so we’ve removed him from the groupchat and starting all of his tasks from scratch. ",42,566,359.67249315474595,college
Is it ethical/legal for a college to create a new required course 2 weeks before someone’s final semester before graduation begins?,"My college added an extra 1 credit course that will consist only of materials to take the college exit exam.  These materials used to be included in the coursework for the 3 credit Senior Seminar course, but the school has decided to split the two while keeping Senior Seminar at 3 credits and creating this new course for 1 credit. It’s great that they separated the two since they don’t really go together, but why not make Senior Seminar 2 credits then? I am affected negatively because I had the option to take a summer course for either 3, 4, 5, or 6 credits (for the same exact course, just different credit options) and I took 4 because that is the amount that I needed to reach 120 credits and graduate. Now I will be finishing with 121 which means that I spent an extra $400 on 1 extra credit I don’t need. I’ve spoken with the Assistant Dean and they basically told me good luck disputing this. Is this ethical/ legal? What are my options?

Thanks in advance.",40,562,74.39366213622745,college
Anyone else procrastinating instead of studying for finals?,I've cleaned the entirety of my room and car instead of write this damn paper lol.,91,566,531.9821227843756,college
"My biggest tip for a new semester: First day of class, go through your syllabi and take an hour or so to mark every due date, test, and exam on a calendar/planner.","Trust me on this. Whether it's a monthly calendar spread or daily planner, make an effort to go through each and every important date (especially class/no class) and mark each and every one so you have a point of reference for the entire month. It has helped tremendously with my time management. Good luck y'all! ",37,563,1003.1152477843757,college
Are Online Classes Supposed To Be This Bad?,"It's my first year of college and I have three in real life classes and two online. The second one hasn't started yet but the first is Intro to Psych. I took it as a class in high school and it was my favorite. Now, with the online class, our entire course is just reading the textbook. Genuinely my entire syllabus is every week we read a chapter of the textbook and summarize it. Then we have to reply to two other students summaries with some kind of response even though we're all describing the same thing. She'll occasionally throw in a three page essay on a 15 minute video like Little Albert. Are online classes supposed to be this horrible? I literally paid this teacher like 300$ to scan my summaries weekly and grade them.",160,562,29.484715376968182,college
Finished my assignments for the term,,26,563,1060.206601951042,college
"NY Times article - people don't realize that ""typical"" college students are part-time community college students who also work, have a hard time making ends meet, and take several years to graduate because they are not well served by existing funding programs for college.",,45,550,729.407180654746,college
"does anyone feel less creative and more ""boring"" a person in college?",especially for non arts/humanities majors?,78,556,327.2748542658571,college
PRO TIP: for those of you going to college for the first time this month: GO TO CLASS!,,35,551,425.03069917326445,college
Failing my classes and confused about my major/future,"I am currently a second year student at a California community college. I began as an environmental studies BA hoping to transfer to a UC in 2 years. I aced all my classes my first year, falling in the top 10%, taking a few humanities, Bio, Calc 1, and English. Now my second year comes along and I want to switch my major to something more science based since I was never interested in the career opportunities associated with the BA in the first place. I see a counselor and he tells me I will need to take a bunch of sciency courses this year in order to transfer next fall.

So this year I am in Environmental Science, supposed to apply to transfer, and have a course load of Physics, Chemistry, and Calculus 2.  After failing a couple tests and quizzes, I came to the realization that I never had a science brain to begin with. I don’t enjoy nor excel at solving science problems and I have no idea what I’m doing with myself. The idea of studying and saving the natural world just appealed to me. But I have no motivation to study forces, integrals, and orbitals. I enjoy learning about the world from a more holistic perspective. 

I don’t know what to do. I would like to withdraw from all my classes, get a job and come back next semester to take an easier course load but at least knowing what I want to do. But that’s my parents’ money. I’m so scared and confused and stressed. My parents keep telling me to just finish off this semester but I know I won’t do well at all. I need at least a C in my classes to fulfill UC requirements which I don’t think I can do. Any advice will help, I’m extremely stressed right now.

Edit: Thank you for all the thorough replies! I’m going to see a counselor and will likely withdraw from physics and calc, stay in chem and find a job.",57,548,10.205178339931148,college
Does anyone else not study nearly as much as they tell parents/teachers?,,75,544,264.2705950065978,college
My roommate broke an exit sign in our dorm. What should he expect?,"On the first day of school last week someone snuck into our room and stole my roommates bag. He had a lot of his stuff in it and he got really angry and punched out an exit sign. It was gone all night until the next day when we realized it was very easy to put back in. He told me he just got an email from the school to schedule a meeting where they can talk about vandalism. What will probably happen?

Update; received a warning all good",85,545,39.316312599190404,college
From Class of 98 to Class of 17,,22,544,673.2697616732645,college
Does anyone else enjoy college?,"There are a lot of post on the subreddit about all of the anxiety, problems, and fears that come with college. And rightfully so, college, as well as any transition can be frightening and come with a host of problems.  But with the new year about to start, and the sub being filled with rising freshman, I wanted to hear from the people that are enjoying their experience so far.

As for myself, I am a Junior and college has allowed me to discover that I love chemistry ( ironic because I hated it in high school.) While I'm definitely not a social butterfly, I have made a few friends and in general I'm loving my college experience. I do have some fears, mostly about debt, but I'm looking forward to going back and I don't regret going to college or picking my major. I think I've developed tremendously as a person because of my experience at University so far, and I'm excited to see what's next.

What about you ?",175,546,96.1719491732645,college
My math professor lost my test,"On April 3 I had a math test worth 10% of my mark, I took the test, and I think I did great. 

However my math professor said I did not take the test. He even said that I did not attend the class. 

so he gave me a zero on the test. what should I do I have friends who can conform that I was at the class, I even remember some things he said in the class but noone believes me. I submitted an appeal form, hopping something would happen. 

Is there anything else I can do?",103,544,188.9204213954867,college
I just graduated this year. I made some senior pictures for me and my friends. This is my favorite one.,,18,540,863.33687972882,college
College Playlists Megathread,"Looking for music to study or party to and need a change of pace or some inspiration?  Have a favorite playlist and think other students would appreciate it?  This thread is for you.

All top level comments to this thread should be a link to playlist. Include in your post:
1. The link to the playlist 
2. A description of the style of music 
3. Your intended purpose for the list (studying, partying, working out, listening at work, etc.)",95,545,19.502215376968188,college
Fit students: how do you fit in gym time as a busy student?,"I’m a 20 year old guy and I’d like to start building muscle. I was never the sporty type and I was nearing obesity until a little over a year and a half ago, when I started dieting and walking more. I’ve dropped 100 pounds, and now I have a dad bod. I mean to say, I’m very new to all of this.


I have a part time job (~25 hours a week), and I’m heavily involved in a theater club and a volunteering club, which together take up about 10 hours of my week. I’m taking 16 credits, and I’m dumb so I have to study a lot to maintain good grades. Any free time I have is spent socializing or napping.


The gym is 15 minutes away, which means 30 minutes are taken up just by travel. Showering takes about 10 minutes, and if 40 minutes of my day are spent just doing those I’d prefer to spend more than 20 minutes at the gym. Is working out on Saturday and Sunday mornings worth it? Will it at least somewhat help tone my body? Weekends are usually spent just relaxing and studying, but since exercise helps mental health, I can trade out relaxing with gym time I guess.


(Inb4 someone suggests getting my own weights: my room is a shoebox and weirdly shaped. I don’t have enough room to extend my arms fully or to do pushups. I don’t want to exercise in our living room while everyone is studying...)




",141,544,256.33152093252374,college
Does anyone just go to random places on campus to sit and do homework or just chill to avoid staying in your room for a long time?,"I’m very introverted honestly, so my first instinct is to just stay in my room if I don’t have anything else to do. I want that to change though. 
Do people often do what I asked?",65,535,379.26819917326446,college
The worst part of the semester isn't the finals. It's the week after finals when your professors haven't submitted your grades and you have convinced yourself that you have failed.,"Waiting on one last thing to be graded in my physics class. I've calculated I need about a 33% on it to pass the class, but I've been endlessly picking apart my answers or worrying about mistakes in writing that could put me that low.",35,528,1034.8283843584495,college
Trump says to sign executive order requiring 'free speech' at colleges,,278,534,228.98872000659782,college
Does anyone feel constantly overwhelmed ?,"I was curious if anyone is experiencing the same feeling as me. I am constantly overwhelmed with every task I receive. I look at a homework problem and I feel discouraged and roll my eyes. I don't know why I feel like this all the time. I was never this bad in highschool. to be fair my highschool didn't give out hard task. They were easy. 

Just wanted to know if this was a normal thing. thanks! ",78,531,361.0472038028941,college
I feel like I’ve been socially blacklisted because people misunderstand my political beliefs,"I’m a left-leaning centrist at a very left-leaning college in Maryland of about 1,200 students. It’s the kind of university that places social justice at the forefront of all academics, is extremely progressive, and favors nearly every socialist solution to today’s problem. It’s totally fine if people believe that. Not only do most of my friends hold these beliefs, I do (to an extent), as well. 


In my opinion, the problem comes when people here (who largely think the same due to the school’s small size) over-generalize a topic/ group of people and/or they don’t take the subject’s nuances into consideration. I completely disagree with blanket solutions and generalizations. I hate it when people say, “x group only consists of socialists,” or “y group only consists of racists.” Politics isn’t black or white—it’s grey. 


I try my hardest to question the applicability/validity of most generalizations and proposed solutions, in addition to understanding right-wing talking-points beyond a surface-level. As a result, I often find myself being the devil’s advocate, poking holes in people’s argument, and/or defending a group of people from over-generalized labels. 


While professors frequently tell me how much they enjoy hearing my opinions (even if I am only playing a devil’s advocate), I know most students really dislike it. And since word of mouth spreads quickly here due to the school’s small size, I believe most students don’t associate with me because they think I’m this horrible person.  For example, I’ve had some of my PoC friends tell me they were told by other PoC students not to talk to me because I’m “a racist fascist” (I’m not at all btw) 


It seems like I’m in a constant up-hill battle to make friends. Nearly no one understands me, and I’m frequently feel isolated and lonely. I just don’t know what to do. 


Does anyone else have any experience with this and/or advice they can give? I’d really appreciate it.


Edit: no, I’m not a conservative. I just don’t think it’s fair to call an entire group of people racists when other factors made them vote for the Republican. I also don’t think socialism is the saving grace people make it out to be. It has its pros and cons, but no one every addressed the cons. So I have to, which people do not like. I never completely argue against an idea—that’s just counter productive. I want people to see a potential downside and/or learn some new info. For example, when people say we need mandatory buybacks on all guns, I’m the person who points out we’ve done that numerous times and it never worked.


Edit II: here’s an example. 
1). Some students were saying colonialism was completely started because Europeans disliked PoCs and wanted to be superior to them. I argued that it started because the Ottoman Empire blocked trade to the East, and the Europeans stumbled across the New World purely accidental. It was economically motivated, but I still got crap.",112,527,2.9621922288200366,college
At the end of this semester I will be 54% done my Associate's degree 1 year 7 months in while working full time,"Just as the title says I started school in the fall of 2017 and have been taking 2 classes a semester with one winter and one summer class during those times. 

Before starting school I was on this and many other subreddits all the time to get an idea of how school was because I was nervous. Although my GPA is only a 2.9 at the moment I am proud of how far I've gotten and am happy with my progress considering I was a D and F student in highschool.

I'm a computer science major and I cannot wait to get my Associate's degree in CS (my school offers an A.S in computer science) and maybe find an entry job in the field while I work on my B.S!",50,525,268.3181875991904,college
Harvard records show discrimination against Asian-Americans: group,,110,527,489.33826861770893,college
Anyone else getting their ass kicked by summer term?,"This is my first year taking summer classes. Chemistry the first session, calculus the 2nd. I went into it happy, excited, and well prepared based on last term. Now on the day before the final of the first session I want to drive off a bridge. 
There is a brand new concept you're expected to memorize and be able to do every single day. Confused for longer than a day? Youre fucked. Teacher isnt helpful during office hours? You're fucked. Don't fall behind because by the time youre able to get help the class is already 5 concepts ahead.
I thought you all were exaggerating how horrible 4 week terms were ... Don't make the same mistake as me.
Edit: my final today went alright. I wish all of you taking summer classes the best on your exams!",216,527,93.24963435844965,college
Does anyone else think college squirrels are super weird?,"Walking on campus and looking into their beady, unwaivering eyes is freaky. They don't move when you walk past you. When you look into their eyes you don't see any fear, and that's terrifying",83,521,562.0847616732646,college
My college lets students scream out of their windows for a minute at 12:00 a.m. during finals week,"Fun school tradition, was unaware of it the first time and I thought there was a fire",47,524,672.7539746362274,college
The girl who lives in the dorm next to me is super loud..,"Basically, the girl who lives next dorm to me always plays her music so loud, and on top of that she’s always got her boyfriend over almost every night of the week. He looks really old (to be in a college dorm that is) so it’s sort of uncomfortable having him around all the time, and I can hear them having sex basically every night. it’s SO uncomfortable and I don’t know what to do about any of this. I use earplugs but they hurt my ears a lot so I don’t want to be using them 24/7. Sometimes I just want to hang out in my room without hearing them, what do I do?",92,525,19.139402876968184,college
Post your study station,,108,523,640.8295649140052,college
"The cost of college textbooks has risen 1,216% since 1977 - that's more than healthcare costs, and housing prices, both of which have risen faster than the rate of inflation",,57,520,802.4263936177089,college
Who else is excited to go back in the Spring?,"Hi all! I know a lot of people here are anxious about going back for the Spring semester, and that’s okay. 

Who all here is looking forward to going back though? I’m very excited. I spent most of the holidays alone (not entirely, but mostly alone), and I want to be around people again!

I also just want to get moving with finishing my degree. I seriously wish that colleges could be more self-paced so I didn’t have to be on someone else’s timeline, but that’s another discussion ;)

I’m also excited to go back because I’ll have something to distract me from my chronic physical health issues. 

Who else feels the same? ",119,510,286.2665788028941,college
Was told to leave and never come back first day of college class after checking cell phone with no previous warning or discussion about cell phones. Should talk to the professor or transfer out of class?,"A little background - there was absolutely no discussion about cell phones.  Checked the phone quickly, maybe had it out 5 seconds and put back in the pocket.  Was told to leave and never come back.  This was during the introduction of students, not while the professor was teaching.  ",139,513,420.3113010251163,college
Family Dog has cancer and I’m in college,"

Found out my dog has cancer and I don’t know how long she has left and I’m at College

This past  weekend I found out my dog has bone cancer and We can’t amputate due to the old age of my dog. I can’t stop thinking about this especially when I got back to my dorm from returning home. I don’t know how long she has left and I won’t be there to spend time with her before she gets worse. I haven’t cried yet but I just feel down and can’t stop thinking about it. I already miss her even after leaving. Any advice is appreciated

Edit: Thank you for all the advice and support. I appreciate it tenfold",77,509,2.4164977843755926,college
Definitely the most unrelated picture I've ever seen on a textbook,,36,502,1001.186416765857,college
What’s the worst professor you’ve ever had? What’s the best?,"What did they do to make them the best or worst?

**edit:** I have another HORRIBLE professor story I wanted to add in.  I was taking a probability class over summer last year and also working on campus.  I ended up reporting my boss for sexual harassment and my department did an investigation and found enough stuff on his PC to warrant him being immediately fired and banned from campus.  The same day they fired him, he was found dead by suicide.  I had a lot of issues handling this, emotionally, and the Dean of Students and campus counseling came to my aid to support me through it.  I was very grateful towards them.  The same week this happened, I had a midterm in my probability class.  The dean personally spoke to my teacher to ask him to be mindful of my circumstances and give me extra time to prepare for the test and to take it later in the week.  He refused, told me to not be lazy and to ""hire a tutor if the class is so hard for you"" and gave me a list of tutors starting off at $50/hr.  I didn't need help studying, I just needed more time and considering I quit my job after what happened, I definitely didn't have $50/hr to throw at anyone anyway..... I ended up getting a C+ in the class and therapy, no thanks to how much of an asshole the teacher was.  I've since told all my fellow math students to not take any classes from him because he has no sympathy for students and he wasn't even a good teacher to begin with.

**worst**: I took a CS - based discrete math course, and the teacher for that was the fucking worst. It was a large class (auditorium-sizes class), and so the teacher had a teaching assistant. It became pretty clear early on that she had no like or respect for students and I’m pretty sure she was only teaching because she had to, but she was more interested in her research work. She often rushed lecture, she refused to slow down for anyone that asked (and would openly mock them for asking), and she was very unforgiving with grades. As in, if a problem was a multi-parter with parts (a) to (d) and you partially got (c) incorrect, the entire problem would be marked zero.  At the first midterm, she started the test by saying she put some common mathematic formulas on the back of the exams for “all the morons in the room who never bothered to learn basic math”. I left that test, reported her to the CS department, and dropped the class. 

**best**: On the flip side, the next semester, I took a math-based discrete math course from a strict but very fair mathematician who was very knowledgeable and had a good way to help students understand difficult concepts in more basic terms. I had to work my ass off in that class, but I learned so much and I really respect the teacher.

I ended up switching majors from cs to math/stats, partially as a result of these two teachers.",111,503,49.33874315474596,college
Is it true that you shouldn’t room with a friend?,I’m a senior in high school this year and I met this dude we’ll call Matt. He’s pretty cool and we’re pretty much each other’s best friends at our school. We’re planning on both going to Texas tech and rooming together. However my parents said this is a bad idea and we would get tired of one another. Is this true?,123,503,248.36005102511635,college
Do you actually ENJOY disucssing your answers post-exam?,"I do not understand how can people be so interested in discussing their results after they did exam. It gives me anxiety, I am afraid of this feeling ''oh fk i fked up''. I'd rather not know a mistake than figure it out first moment after exam and then tell myself how stupid my mistake was.

Today I had an exam - pretty easy, hoping for max grade. And then i am waiting for bus to go home and there are 3 guys discussing '' oh i got this answer, I got this answer, no no this is mistake, oh fk im so stupid omg blah blah..''' I had to back off not to hear their discussion.

I do not understand why peopple enjoy this, are they interested in discussing their answers and trying to figure out mistakes?Or maybe its because i'm not counting right answers and how many points i earned, but i count how many points I lost?",88,504,136.4770764880793,college
My major classes are way too hard and my geneds are way too easy. Does anyone else feel the same.,"My geneds are literally as easy as high school. Just show up, read, do work, be polite and you'll get an A. In my computer science classes you have to do tons of extra work, be smart (lol), and kiss ur profs' asses",104,500,213.06949546956076,college
Where we dropping boys?,,19,499,588.9903635251163,college
"Those who wake up at 6AM or earlier, how exactly do you do it?","I tried waking up at 5:30 or 6 AM many times and I can go to bed early when I don't have any group project, but when I do, I have to work very late and have no will to wake up early. Those who do this everyday (or almost everyday), how do you do this?",195,496,235.32689130289413,college
Is it impolite for my roommate to eat my food without asking?,"My roommate’s been eating my snacks and stuff since she moved in. Yesterday she asked me if she could have some peanut butter, and I said, “Well, you’ve already been eating it for two weeks.” She was like, “Yeah, but you weren’t in the room the other times.”

Is this rude of her, or am I out of line?",86,497,413.03635889548667,college
My college's library nailed #bookface today,,15,498,1041.9843334325237,college
Is anybody else a night owl but HATED night classes?,"I didn't like my first college so I transferred to a new one but in between got my associates at a community college (spent about a year doing that). My God, none of the classes there were good but night classes had to be the most sad thing I've experienced. Everybody just seems zapped of energy. To make things worst, I took the class that met once a week for THREE HOURS both times!

&#x200B;

And one of the classes pretty much just consisted of the teacher standing up there and talking (it was an intro. to business class and the only tests we had were open-note online quizzes). I pretty much just browsed the web the entire class. The other one was a macroeconomics class (I took AP macro in high school so I guess second time taking it in a way) where we actually had formal tests but got study guides we went over in class. I paid attention more in that class than I did in intro. to business but also spent most of it just surfing the web.

&#x200B;

For the record, I got As in both classes so my grade didn't suffer at all in either of the classes from not paying attention.

&#x200B;

The worst was at the end of the macro class when my teacher was like, yeah, the department thought it was important for you to write a research paper to make sure you understand what economics is. I don't understand it and frankly don't really expect you to be able to forecast what's going to happen in economics in the future. So for this paper I'm just going to grade you on your mechanics, spelling and format, sentence flow etc. You need to include graphs but I don't care if those are accurate or if what you write is accurate because I think this paper is silly in the first place.

&#x200B;

Honestly I'm finding I prefer early morning classes over night classes and I'm not a morning person AT ALL!!!",52,497,246.98991213622745,college
How do yall afford fancy college apartments while in college?,"Even the most mediocre places near my campus are way too expensive. How do so many people afford these apartments? Daddy's dime? I know a guy who spent all his fafsa money to live in this ""luxury"" apartment right next to campus (his bedroom was literally a cubicle). Of course there's always the International students with fuck you money, but I'm really curious as to how most people afford these places. Do you stay broke all the time after spending so much money on rent? Or am I just really poor? What am i missing?

Edit: For people saying parental help, do they really help you pay 1k a month besides tuition no questions asked? Do they ever tell you to get a job to pay your own rent, or set conditions for you like maintaining a 4.0 or to visit them every weekend? If I asked my dad for a thousand bucks every month he would bust out laughing and send me a bag full of shit in the mail",163,490,101.160780191783,college
Struggling to wake up on time,"I’m a freshman and have a 9:30am class, I know it’s not that early but on Monday’s I’ve had a hard time getting up.  I’ve missed class twice and can’t afford to miss another.

What’s a good way to ensure I wake up on time instead of sleeping through?",115,493,3.381162136227444,college
$375 for my teacher’s “self made” book?????,"I go to a local community college and my Anatomy and Physiology I professor is making us buy his self wrote textbook for almost $400. I would get if I was going to University or something and he was a leader in his field, but this seems a little ridiculous...

I was able to rent all of my books for >$200 last semester thanks to amazon and chegg, but now with 2 of my teachers making us buy their own books I have to spend over $700. Im a little ticked, is this just how it is sometimes?",94,490,283.6514862103015,college
Can’t eat after moving in.,"As the title suggests, I’m having trouble eating after moving into college. Is this a normal thing? What can I do to start eating food again?

Edit:
Thanks for the advice guys, it really does reassure that I’m not the only person going through this. Today I was invited to a bbq at one of the fraternities at my school so hopefully I can nibble on whatever they have. Thanks again!",66,492,54.375780191782994,college
How much did you change in college?,During or after your studies in college did you notice yourself change from who you were in high school? What exactly changed about yourself?,144,493,88.38325704363486,college
"Is it normal to feel ""not yourself"" in college?","I started college last semester and while it was rough sometimes, things are overall really great. I have classes I like and I feel like I'm doing my work and I'm not stressed academically. I also have a good friend group at school. However, I just feel like I lost a piece of myself since coming to college?

I was very passionate about certain things before college, but my passion has almost completely went away. I don't have a problem motivating myself to do my work and I finish them on time, but when I don't feel passionate? I just do the work to do it and I don't feel like I'm getting at better or anything. I also struggle getting the drive and energy to do hobbies. I either just lie in bed or chill with friends when I'm not doing hw, which isn't bad, but I feel like I should also be taking care of my hobbies since it was something I cared so much about before. Not sure if that makes sense, but its been on my mind a lot.

Edit: I didn't expect this to get this many comments and I appreciate what was said. I think despite my great friend group I feel like I'm not ready to spill these emotions about my lack of sense of self to them. And it would feel weird talking to friends from high school, despite still being very close, because they are so far away and doing such different things. I only have my boyfriend who I went to high school with and a close RA on campus to talk to about these problems I feel. I think being over a 1000 miles away from home magnified this disconnect I feel with my home and life before college. My hobbies are also related to the arts which I feel like are taken less seriously. The arts used to be my main source of inspiration and ambition before college and it felt like it was fading after college, but I think I'm realizing that my relationship with the arts is changing and whether I pursue it or not, I'll be okay. Thank you for all the responses, it made me feel less alone.",34,490,208.94564130289413,college
College makes you give up certain hobbies for your time to study,"I remember before I started college, I used to spend at least an hour and a half practicing music every day to every other day. I would practice a different instrument every day (Piano, Guitar, or Violin). But once I got heavy into school, I spent more time working on schoolwork rather than working on my music. I have full time classes and also work a full-time job. I actually cannot wait to graduate (Graduate in May) just so I can pick up music again. 

&#x200B;

What is something that you gave up to make more time for school?",98,487,327.84382417326447,college
The University of Alaska is having a funding crisis. Their governor slashed $130 million from their FY2019 budget.,,46,487,108.86128945104227,college
I would like to congratulate our colleges for being “fair” and keeping our standardized tests “standardized”,,116,488,473.72321074733856,college
"When my dad tells me ""you won't be 23 forever""",,63,488,1075.7464399140051,college
"Thanks, Cengage!",,60,486,375.18388204363487,college
"[19f] Assigned 3 male roommates for my student living apartment, any advice?","So last night I received my roommate assignment for my student living apartment and I have 3 male roommates (presumably, one name could be female but it's unlikely). The email only gave me their first name and their phone number, so I can't look them up on Facebook. When I was living in a dorm I lived with a good female friend of mine, so having 3 complete strangers be my roommate is a little scary. Luckily I got my top choice of room and floor preference, and I have my own bathroom. We also each have deadbolts on our bedrooms doors in addition to the front door of the apartment.

If I call and ask to be switched to a new apartment with different roommates, it's likely I won't get the room or floor I want, which is really important to me. Because of this I think I want to stick it out and stay with these roommates, because at least I'll have a nice room to myself. And Im either in class or working most of the time, and I like to keep to myself, so they probably wouldn't see much of me anyway.

All this being said, do you guys have any advice as how-to make this living situation less awkward for both me and them? What should I expect from these guys? Anyone else have a similar experience, either as a guy or girl? I'm a bit nervous about the whole situation.

Update: Thanks for all the great advice everyone! I appreciate all your responses, I think we've reached the limit of new info everyone has to say. Thanks again!",142,485,85.4011389880793,college
Finals tips from a senior,"1. Bring healthy snacks with you to the library/wherever you study. I can almost guarantee that you will be there longer than you think you will. Snacks from the vending machine and fast food won’t help you in your long run studying. Unhealthy foods weigh you down and make it harder to focus. 
 
2. Study in the building or even classroom where your exam is if you can 

3. Set a timer on your phone for 90 and take a lap when it goes off. The movement will help you focus more. 

4. You have time for a shower, take one. 

5.  Utilize your school’s tutoring/academic assistance centers. I work at mine, and very few people use it during finals. Go and get help from people who are paid to help you. 

6. Stop studying by midnight each night. If you’re up studying until 2 am with a final the next day, prioritize sleep. You don’t want to cram everything in the night before then fall asleep during the exam. 

7. If you have a cumulative final, make a cheat sheet for each chapter/section on the exam of the highlights of that part. 

8. If you’re in a math or economics course, draw out all of the graphs you know you’ll be tested on.

9. Make a formulas cheat sheet to review right before the exam. 

10. 15 minutes before the exam, head to the exam room. If you don’t know it 15 minutes before, you aren’t going to know it. Take a few minutes to breathe slowly and calm yourself down. 

11. If you’re writing an essay, take the number of required pages, multiply it by 2, then have that many paragraphs. Ex) if you have a 6 page paper on the economic impacts of affirmative action in higher education admission decisions like I did, write out the 10 biggest points you want to hit then add a conclusion and introduction. 

12. Break your studying in to small chunks of no more than 2 hours for each subject at a time 

13. Don’t have more than 4 cups of coffee in a day, you won’t be able to concentrate 

14. If you don’t study well in the library, try an academic building, the clubhouse at your apartment complex, sorority/fraternity house, or administrative buildings on campus. There probably won’t be many people using those spaces to study. 

15. If you have a short answer/essay test, write out notes for all of the questions then go back and do your long written out answer.

If you have any study/surviving finals tips, I really want to hear them. Finals is rough, but we are going to make it!",36,485,527.3722500991904,college
"Could we have an ""advice for incoming freshmen"" master thread?","I'm not a freshman and I'm kind of sick of seeing that question posted 10x a day. I think it's important to employ collective knowledge to help those we can, but it would be really neat to have that compiled in one place.",36,480,183.29343065474598,college
"Nature offers serious benefits to our physical and mental health, research suggests - Students who spend time outside are less stressed and have longer attention spans, educators find",,20,478,159.21659037696818,college
"Whats the best thing your college provides you for ""free""?","I say ""free"" because you're still paying tuition, but today i found out that my college gives us a free subscription to Lynda.com, which is basically just an assload of classes online, so i learned how to use Reaper last night, and there are so many video series too, its like the best thing i think they provide next to a free gym.",260,474,239.30125472882003,college
"PSA for freshman: Don't buy textbooks from your university book store, no matter how convenient they make it.","Amazon will most likely have all of you books and supplies available at a fraction of your book store prices.   My university had a really convenient system where they compiled all the textbooks, access codes, and supplies I needed and you could put in an order for pickup from the bookstore, and I payed out the ass for my school supplies my first semester.  Don't be like me, get them off amazon.",104,476,795.9912894510423,college
What I tell incoming Freshman every year: good grades and a party life are not mutually exclusive. The key is your routine & habit (Very long-winded post).,"**Good grades and a party life are not mutually exclusive.**

Since many people are about to go to college, I wanted to share my experience in Undergrad and Law School. More specifically, I wanted to address what I think is the most important thing about university life – **Routine & Habit**. 

I’ve counseled for incoming Freshman for a few years now as a graduate student and I get very positive feed back from the students who follow the advice I am about to give. 

Quickly, I’ll brag. I graduated with top Latin honors with a 4.0 in my major and 3.9+ in my minors. I also went out and had fun and partied 3-4+ nights per week. Senior year I was going out almost every night and traveling every weekend. I had an amazing time at undergrad filled with success, opportunity, and memories with the people who are now my best and life-long friends. Here is how:

 .

1. **Establish A Routine & Study Habits.**

High school and college differ substantially in a critical way – routine. Very few high schools allow their students to create schedules that don’t adhere to their own. Maybe you picked some of your own classes, but most students still went to school every day from 8am to 3pm (or whatever times you did). College is different. You may have 3 classes one day with 2 hour breaks between them and 1 evening class the next. After having spent the past 12 years of your life in the 8am to 3pm school routine, you will now need to find a new routine. This is easily the hardest part and can take nearly a full semester to establish. 

Most freshmen arrive at college and bask in the glory of getting to sleep in late, taking breaks between classes, and not having any parents around to enforce curfews. After 12 years of grade school you’re finally free of that rigid routine and it feels GREAT! I’m not trying to say that you’ve got to maintain that strict rigidity of high school and live in misery every day of college. In fact, I will tell you that establishing a good routine will make your college experience far more fulfilling and fun-filled than those who do not. 

So what does a good routine look like? Some of that is subjective, you need to determine what you prefer. My ideal routine may not sound like yours. But I do say with confidence these three things: 1) Establish a study spot that is not your living quarters; 2) visit that study spot daily; and **3) if you want to be a party person, you need to be a morning person.**

For me, I woke up every day at 8ish and went to a nearby coffee shop/lounge. Every weekday morning for me started with a cup of coffee there and I would prepare, read, write, etc.. for my classes that day or beyond. If I didn’t have any work, I’d try to get a head a little, plan, organize, or find work (clubs, organizations, applications for internships, study abroad, etc..) The coffee shop was my “office” and when I wasn’t in class or at lunch, I was at the coffee shop. 

It took almost a full semester for this to become habit and for me to stop struggling to get up and force myself to go. But, once it was my routine it was like Pavlov’s bell. I was immediately put into study mode because I was in that spot I dedicated only for my studies. This is why I believe a dorm room doesn’t work, because you share that space with too many other activities and this can make it harder to ‘click’ into that study mode when needed. 

**Treat your studies like a 9-5 job** (or 8-4 like I preferred). During the day you’re either at your study spot, lunch, or class. It isn’t as miserable as it sounds. I had friends I’d see at the coffee shop; I’d or lay out or play on the quad during lunch, etc… It isn’t all work, enjoy your day – but remember, your day-time routine is a work routine first and foremost. 

.



**2. Be the master of your class schedule** 

Picking and prioritizing classes can be difficult. Many universities will assign incoming freshmen a ‘core curriculum’ and some even go ahead and schedule your first semester or two of classes. So you’re kinda stuck there, and this section is for all those semesters where you’ll get to pick your own classes. 

The three most important things in making a class schedule, in my opinion are (in this order): **1) The Professor**; 2) The Time/Days; 3) The subject matter. 

*First one is easy* – better professors simply offer a better classroom and learning experience. Look for professors that have high ratings on online ranking sites and also see if those professors teach classes from freshman through senior & graduate level. Getting to take that one amazing professor multiple times throughout your time is invaluable. I had to take through Calc. 2 – so 4 semesters at 1 math class each. Two professors were rated to be easy A’s in the basic class and were rated highly. However, one professor I saw was rated harder but also taught every class I needed. So I stuck with her for all 4 classes; those later 3 classes were so much easier because I was a part of this professor’s continuing curriculum, learned her style, and had built a reputation with her. 

Building a relationships with your professors is something most incoming Freshman find horrifying. I never in a million years would have dreamed of hanging out with any of my high school teachers; yet, by my senior year I knew several professors that I could (and would) get drinks with. Heck, one professor taught a “Lord of the Rings and Political Theory” class Thursday 5-8pm specifically so we could go to a bar and pre-game with him while talking about LoTR. You had to apply to get in and it was a pretty fun time (and I did learn a lot too since he assigned a ton of readings). 

*Second one is harde* – Sometimes you just cant get the classes you wanted; sometimes classes conflict with each other, etc… I only advice a few things here. First, don’t overload and try to do 6 hours in a row. I tried a semester where I did only Tuesday/Thursday classes and had Wednesday and Friday-Monday off. Maybe that’s for you, but I hated it. My ideal schedule was about 2 classes per M/W or T/R block and a once per week evening course, so 5 classes total for 15 credit hours (max at my school was 17 and minimum was 12). I cant recommend the 3 hour once-per-week classes enough. The idea of a 3 hour long 5-8pm class may sound like shit; but, often professors hate going that long (they want to go home too) and it really does make your days feel a lot more open. 

*Third is easy*  - You’ve picked your times, you’ve picked your professors. Now pick what classes fit! I know you’ll be required to take some classes, but work around that and do the best you can to tinker with your schedule until you get what you want. At my school, registration was a mad dash first-come first-serve ordeal. To prepare for this, I’d have several schedules made out and assigned all the CRNs to my copy/paste clipboard (we used banner/banweb/blackboard). Turns out, most of the time the top rated professors are also teaching the classes people want to take; so things work out pretty well outside of required core classes with this method. 

.

**3. **Finally – DON’T LET YOUR FRIENDS DISTRACT YOU!** 
**
Honestly, if you develop a morning routine like I did, this may only rarely apply to you. Most people I knew slept in late, didn’t work between classes, and planned their routines like they did in High school – they saved all their work for evenings when all the classes were done. But night is when all the fun stuff happens, so why save all your work until then?!

As things turned out – I was the bad/distracting influence on my friends. By the time 5-6 rolled around I was done with my work, hungry, and bored. So I’d go around and try to recruit a group to go out and do something. Once you get a couple of people who want to go do something fun, its easy to show up to your friend’s dorm room and say, “hey, we’re going quarry diving, lets go!” Of course they’re going to go because their current choices are to do math homework that can wait for a couple of days or get shit faced and jump off a 30 foot ledge. 

Problem so many Freshman run into is that there is ALWAYS a person like me looking to go out and do something at night. If you’re constantly putting things off to go on adventures and hit up the bars, then you’ll always been fighting to catch up later. There is always something to do and somebody to do it with in college; get your work done, then go play. It’ll make the play all the better without having that stress in the back of your mind. 

I should also note: most of the people I knew thought I was a terrible student and were under the impression that I was never studying/working because they only ever saw me go out at night, the time they used for work. A lot of people do put off all their work in favor of going out, so they just assumed I was one of those kids who was there to party, not study. People I knew for years came up to me at graduation and were shocked to see all the chords around my neck. 

I had friends busting into the coffee shop at 9 in the morning on a Tuesday looking to go crazy all day… like maybe a handful of times over the years… 

.

**TL:DR: Routine/Habit is the most important part of your college experience. Find an ‘office’ to study at and treat your studies like a 9-5 job. Pick your classes to meet YOUR routine and don’t let others tear your routine apart. All the wordiness in this post is mostly explanation and anecdotal stories to illustrate the points better.**

Oh and Vector Marketing is a Pyramid Scheme, just skip past their stuff whenever you see it. 
",43,476,1165.1981528769682,college
What do Y'all think of my schedule? First time in college,,588,474,139.36574546956078,college
Crippling loneliness is ruining college for me.,"I am at a fairly large public school in Georgia, and have zero friends. Zero. I have people that I occasionally speak to, but I’d hardly consider them friends since we don’t ever speak outside of class. I’m totally, utterly, completely without someone to talk to.   I also have Asperger’s, which makes socialization doubly difficult. 
My grades are great, but it’s only because all I ever do is study. I’m transferring to another school next fall, out of state, and I really want to make some sort of turnaround when I get there. This can’t be what college is about. 
Is there anything I can do in the meantime to meet people like me, even if it’s online? I’m just so tired of having no one to talk to. It’s making me ornery and spiteful, which I know isn’t right. ",95,476,342.91647463622746,college
How do you study for courses you dislike?,"I am required to take two physics and two more math courses as part of my degree, but I strongly dislike the material and have a hard time focusing and applying myself. Whether it be doing homework or paying attention in lecture, I just can't seem to discipline myself into using that time wisely.

Perhaps I'm in the wrong faculty (science; chem major), as biology is terrible for me as well, and I'm not good at labs. In general, I enjoy chemistry (at least on paper, idrk about labs yet), but have no clue of what I'm going to do with the kinda unemployable degree. My lack of direction makes it all the more difficult for me to find motivation for courses that I actively despise.

I am also disengaged - I inevitably make countless stupid/ careless mistakes if I couldn't care less about the material, and can seldom maintain an adequate amount of focus. Hence I find it difficult to do well in such subjects. The material is not excessively challenging, but it's tough for me to succeed when I don't like what I'm doing.

Any advice would be greatly appreciated, thanks everyone.",92,469,32.12691445104226,college
Does anybody judge anybody for what they wear in college in terms of brand?,"At my highschool, kids would make fun of others for buying and wearing gap and other clothes. I happen to like gaps quality in jeans but I wore other brands instead to keep up. Well now I’m about to go clothes shopping before I go off. 

Would kids judge if I wore Gap stuff? Or even other brands, but mostly Gap? 

I know it’s weird but I’m just trying to know how college people think haha. Thank you!

EDIT** These comments are great, haha thank you all, it makes me feel much better. I grew up feeling left out so I used to try to get nicer clothes because the kids would often “check” or “roast” each other when they wore something that wasn’t Raulph Lauren or those types of shirts. I ended up liking Gap’s quality more than some of those high brands though but I just tried to fit in. I’m glad I’m hearing I can be myself in college, that’s what I’ve been looking for :)


SECOND EDIT** Woah this blew up pretty well. I just want to say thank you for all of the answers, I feel much better now. I also do want to say that I WAS NOT one of the people that judged others for what they wore. I just didn’t want to get judged. Thank you all for all of the answers though!!! I read and upvoted each one!",225,472,65.12928713622745,college
Professor put in the wrong final grade for a class. Did I approach this right?,"My biology professor put in a B+ as my final grade in his class but according to his syllabus a A- is considered a 90-92 and I received a 90.46% as a final grade in the class. I emailed him to ask if he could change my grade to an A- since I have the score. I worked really goddam hard this semester in Bio and he knows me well since I went to his office a lot. I’m just really nervous and need reassurance, did I approach this situation correctly? I just finished first year so I’m relatively new to this scenario.

Update: Professor emailed me back this morning saying that Canvas didn’t have an accurate grading system so instead of an A- I’m gonna be stuck with the B+. Not to sad but now I know I can’t trust canvas all the time. Thank you everyone for all the comments and advice!",33,468,149.3616713954867,college
Do you ever feel too lazy to study that it takes every ounce of mental strength to get yourself into that focused zone?,Does this make any sense? Anyone else deal with this issue? And how do you overcome it?,36,475,389.96200704588387,college
That time of the year.,"Does anyone else feel absolutely fine while your doing your thing at school, and then you go home and see the family for the holidays and as you leave, you just get the worst home sickness ever? Saying goodbye to Mom yesterday was the hardest thing I've ever done.",39,463,328.17885889773567,college
What is the most valuable item you use everyday in college?,"By valuable I mean personal value, not necessarily monetary but they definitely can overlap! Wondering because I’m enrolled to attend college next year and was curious what types of things make everyday life smoother?",264,470,230.31918297180977,college
Can a college professor refuse to grade future assignments?,"OP here. I've been taking an online course to catch up on my credit hours. So my college professor just stated that he will not evaluate my work further and will not grade future assignments. He says that I haven't been listening to instructions, even though I can't even find the instructions. I even asked him where the instructions are because I couldn't find them, but he simply said that because it's an online course, I should be able to do things on my own. He even told me to go ahead and drop the course. I was sitting at a B but because he hasn't been providing instructions my grades have dropped down to an F.

To get an idea of an assignment, I'd even look at what other students would post and try to follow in a related topic in the same format. But the professor stills says that it's incorrect, and gives me a zero but gives the other students a high grade. Like WTF is wrong with my professor?

Is it considered a violation if a professor doesn't want to grade future assignments or if they're unfair?",93,465,95.331254731069,college
Who else is killing it and having a great time?,"I feel like this subreddit is full of depressing posts about grades, finances, roommates, etc.  Lets switch it up a little bit and talk about how awesome college life can be.  Post about something that is going well right now!  

EDIT:

Glad to see so many people are doing great!  This was a success!  Hopefully this thread spreads some hope.",156,463,612.8149931569949,college
"People say college is for education and not career training, but do you feel your university really educates you?","I get it, college is not supposed to teach us how to do our jobs but provide us with an education.


But I often feel like my university is not providing an education.  I study computer science, and professors could not care less about teaching.  Many of my professors are part time adjuncts who are more concerned with their other jobs or finding teaching positions for next semester.  The tenured professors read off the same powerpoint slides they have had for over a decade.  But it seems like all my professors do not care about educating their students or helping them understand the material.  Even getting involved in research to help the professors and get ready for grad school is hard since professors would rather mentor their PhD students.



Then there are the general education courses, which are taught at levels that are less rigorous than my high school english and history courses.",100,463,116.30253945329125,college
So many teachers in high school said that college professors aren't going to care to help you yet it turned out to be the opposite,"All of my teachers said something along the lines of ""you paid alot of money to be here so if you have any questions at all, ask me, email me, or visit me at my office, i'll help you out""",72,466,1107.006717694032,college
How to deal with weird professor interaction,"Yesterday, I was taking a test and I got to a question that I had a question on. The question was multiple choice and it said ""which of the following is/are true?"" The answer sheet had a small space for the answers, so I raised my hand to make sure we could choose multiple answers. I said ""so we are allowed to choose more than one answer for this question right?"" And the teacher just started at me and she was like ""did you read the question? Does it not say it right there? Come on it's RIGHT THERE!"" Also, she said this loud enough that the entire class heard and they started laughing. Then, she shoved my head with her hand and walked away. 

This whole experience was pretty humiliating and I was too flustered and pissed off to concentrate on the test for about 20 minutes. 

So, I'm not sure how to deal with this situation. Do I report her? Is it even worth reporting? I don't know :( 

Thanks for listening to my Ted talk. ",57,457,244.30569917551344,college
Friendly Reminder: Finals are not the end of the world! You got this.,"It seems like every semester at my school, I receive the inevitable email regarding the death of a student. While not explicitly stated, the majority of these deaths, which happen to be near finals week, are suicides. 


Since I became moderator of this subreddit close to 2 years ago, and since I became a semi-active member 3 years ago: I've definitely noticed a trend of negative posts fluctuating on this subreddit, even more so than usual. Many complain about the stress, complain about grades, or complain about life in general around this period of time. For some: Finals have started. For others: They don't start for a while. Whatever the case may be, I just want to remind everyone that might come across this post: 



**You will be okay.**



I have had near mental breakdowns during certain semesters near finals week, have come close to breaking down in tears (I've seen lots of people actually reach this point in the library at my school), and I've had thoughts that are darker than I'd like to admit or be comfortable sharing with a public audience. 



As a final semester senior, I am still here, I am still fine, and literally EVERY fucking time I am done with finals week I get an enormous sense of relief and once I get my grades back I realize finals week wasn't that bad at all- that the stress and anxiety was amplified temporarily- and that's okay. 

----

If you feel you might be suicidal, and live in the United States, I urge you to call the Suicide Hotline at 800-273-8255 or navigate to http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/ for a live chat and additional resources. If it's not an emergency, but you want to know more about mental health, the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) offers information on their website https://www.nami.org/ and a free HELPLINE 800-950-6264. If you do not live in the United States please seek out local resources. /r/SuicideWatch has a list that may cover your country: /r/SuicideWatch/wiki/hotlines Let me know if you need any other guidance to people who help.

National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255 (TALK) Veterans press 1 to reach specilised support.

(The older number, 1-800-SUICIDE, is no longer published by the lifeline agency and will probably stop working in the near future.)

Online Chat: http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/gethelp/lifelinechat.aspx

Crisis Text Line: Text ""START"" to 741-741

Spanish: 1-800-SUICIDA

EU Standard Emotional Support Number 116 123 - Free and available in much of Europe, details here

Australia

13 11 14

https://www.lifeline.org.au/Get-Help/Online-Services/crisis-chat

Austria

142, Youth 147 Online: http://www.onlineberatung-telefonseelsorge.at

Belgium

02 649 95 55

Brasil

141

Canada

Canada-wide adult hotlines list. Alternatively, 211 works in most of Canada, and they can advise regarding local resources.

Nationwide Kids Help Line (Up to age 18): 1-800-668-6868

Deutschland

http://www.telefonseelsorge.de/

Tel: 0800-1110111 oder 0800-1110222

Chat: https://chat.telefonseelsorge.org/index.php

Denmark

70 20 12 01

www.livslinien.dk

www.Skrivdet.dk

France

01 40 09 15 22

Greece

1018 or 801 801 99 99

Greece - http://www.suicide-help.gr/

Iceland

1717

India

91-44-2464005 0

022-27546669

Iran

1480 6am to 9pm everyday

Ireland

ROI - local rate: 1850 60 90 90

ROI - minicom: 1850 60 90 91

Israel

1201

Italia

800 86 00 22

Malta

179

Japan

03-3264-4343

3 5286 9090

Korea

LifeLine 1588-9191

Suicide Prevention Hotline 1577-0199

http://www.lifeline.or.kr/

Mexico

Saptel 01-800-472-7835

Netherlands

0900 1130113

www.113online.nl

New Zealand

0800 543 354 Outside Auckland

09 5222 999 Inside Auckland

Norway

Kirkens SOS offers phone support and chat: 22 40 00 40 and http://www.kirkens-sos.no/

Osterreich/Austria

116 123

Romania

116 123 (Potentially not valid, more info here)

Serbia

0800 300 303 or 021 6623 393

Online chat:http://www.centarsrce.org/index.php/kontakt[2]

South Africa

LifeLine 0861 322 322

Suicide Crisis Line 0800 567 567

Spain

http://www.telefonodelaesperanza.org/

Suomi/Finland

010 195 202 available 9am-7am weekdays and 3pm-7am weekends

112, the regular emergency line, may be used at other times

Sverige/Sweden

020 22 00 60

Switzerland

143

UK

Samaritans (www.samaritans.org)

Voice: 116 123 (24/7 Free to call, will not appear on phone bills, formerly 08457 90 90 90)

Text: 07725909090

Email: emailjo@samaritans.org

Helplines for Men from thecalmzone.net:

Voice: 0800 58 58 58 (5pm to midnight nationwide, also 0808 802 58 58 London and 0800 58 58 58 Merseyside)

Text 07537 404717 (5pm to midnight, start your text with CALM2)

Online Chat: https://www.thecalmzone.net/help/get-help/

ChildLine (childline.org.uk), for those 19 and under:

Voice: 0800-11-11 (Free to call, does not appear on phone bills)

Online Chat: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Chat/Pages/OnlineChat.aspx

Email: http://www.childline.org.uk/Talk/Pages/Email.aspx

Directory of suicide-related services: http://www.supportline.org.uk/problems/suicide.php

Uruguay

Landlines 0800 84 83 (7pm to 11 pm)

(FREE) 2400 84 83 (24/7)

Cell phone lines 095 738 483 *8483

----



**Good luck on finals everyone!** 



And PLEASE remember that finals week is, usually, just a short week in your life. Please use the resources above if need be. Or feel free to PM me if you want to talk. Even if you are guaranteed to fail a class, fail a final, realized you haven't learned anything: it is not the end of the world. Do well on finals, try to do well on finals, but make sure mental health comes first and foremost. ",42,458,680.7080602866246,college
Professor here. What can I and other profs do to make your experience in college less stressful?,"I remember ridiculous deadlines, endless essays, depression, and the like. What can I do to improve the college experience for my students?  ",217,455,312.8738357495875,college
Anyone else get excited for break then to all the sudden feel like they have no purpose?,"Like, I finished my last exam barely 6 hours ago and already I'm bored and feel like I have no purpose.",40,450,170.0499121384764,college
Maine will help you pay off your student loans if you move there. (news article),,64,454,356.5124237125505,college
"Public College Tuition Changes, by State",,118,454,435.22025936069866,college
I graduated this morning.,Oh my God.,32,453,893.0502246384765,college
"Tips on how to avoid the ""Freshman 15""?","This summer, I have worked out, dieted, and bettered myself to become the fittest I have ever been. College starts in a few weeks though, and I have tendencies to binge eat. Does anybody have any advice on how to regulate yourself so as not to gain weight?",10,447,75.39495843477272,college
I hated orientation,I was so looking forward to my college orientation but when I got there it wasn't at all what I expected. I made some friends but I did not enjoy it as much as I thought I would. Did you enjoy your orientation? Did I make the wrong college choice?,158,451,128.4379908421801,college
"29, first time in college. I'm nervous!","My family doesn't have much money, and I was afraid of the debt, so I did not choose college after HS. I bummed around for a while, struggling to find jobs during the recession, and then I decided to enlist. No regrets! Now I'm set up with the post-9/11 GI bill, and ready to pursue a Bachelor's in education. I'm registered for the fall semester and classes are only a few weeks away from starting. I'm first generation for my family, and ridiculously exited. But anxious. 

I honestly just don't really know what to expect. I graduated high school 11 years ago, but got crap grades because I often neglected homework. I never had to study for tests as a teen, I'd always been a good tester and cruised right through. My military job was very technical, and I had to learn to actually study in order to perform well. I've heard that college is more study-heavy than homework-heavy, I've heard from some that's it's harder than HS and from others that it's easier. I've been told that you're sort of teaching yourself. 

Can anyone maybe describe how an average lecture goes? Amounts of homework? What the heck is assigned reading about? I know they won't hold my hand, but can I approach a professor if I'm having trouble understanding something? Should I bring my laptop, or a tablet, and why? WHY ARE BOOKS SO EXPENSIVE?! And why the hell would anyone use Pearson stuff? It seems designed only to gouge everyone's wallets..",69,450,84.39448389773568,college
"No major feels safe; 26 years old and two years into community college, I still have zero idea what my next step is. (Advice very appreciated)","For context, I'm a woman in my mid-twenties renting a bedroom in an incredibly expensive part of the country, no relatives or friends to fall back on. I'm not here for the cute cafes, I'm here because I'm kinda stuck (no funds to get out) and also because there are a lot of great schools in this area. I go to the best community college I could find, and it has a decently high transfer rate. 

Right now I'm just working through my GE courses, but I'm coming to the point where I need to pick a major--pick a path and stick to it (at least I'd *prefer* to choose one I can stick to). I've considered graphic design, psychology, or just getting certified to be a medical transcriptionist or ultrasound tech, but nothing I feel remotely capable of feels safe. 

In order to make decent money with a psych degree, I'd need to get my masters or a doctorate, which I really can't afford to do at the moment. Even if I had the money, I don't have the *time*, as I work full-time working near minimum wage just to *live* in this ridiculous city. Graphic design, though interesting, isn't the most stable option. A few years ago I'd have been willing to weather the storm, but at this point I'm desperate for something more dependable than contract work. Preferably something salaried. 

(And yes, I know salaried design jobs exist, but just thinking about how competitive and unpredictable it can be makes my stomach turn.)

>**TLDR;**

The more time I spend working toward my BA the more terrified I become. None of us know what the job market is going to look like in forty years as automation creeps in and snatches up more opportunities, and my greatest fear is working my ass off to become financially secure only to get screwed over and reach retirement age without any savings. I already feel like enough of a failure as a 26 year old with no family and $200 in the bank, earning my degree surrounded by rich teenagers who can drop $10 on coffee every day. 

Before you tell me to learn how to code (trust me, I've considered it), I should mention that I'm not at all math minded. Not even a little. I failed fucking *pre-algebra* last quarter because the second we get into variables, everything becomes a jumbled mess; tbh I'm almost positive that I have dyscalculia but can't afford to get it diagnosed. I can't imagine doing too well in STEM, which is unfortunate because it would be a lot more reliable than most other options. 

**Right now I'm REALLY interested in instructional design**. I have a friend in the field making six figures, and it seems like genuinely enjoyable work. I've even built a presentation for a job interview with one of the most commonly used programs, so I'm familiar with the basic mechanics and concepts. 

**I'd love to hear from anyone who might have some insight on/advice for my situation; I've been stuck in the middle of it for so long that I can't tell up from down anymore, and I'm petrified at the thought of making the wrong choice and ending up with a useless degree or dead-end career.** 

(Sorry if this post is a mess, it's the result of a panic attack LOL)",122,455,257.44609269403196,college
Who else?,,28,453,315.80002787921717,college
I’m already excited for school to start again,"You always want school to end up but now I want school to start up again. During the summer I move back home 4 hours away from school. I’m working a full time 50 hour job. Luckily it pays really nice, but it’s a lot of hours and a lot of hard work. It has nothing to do with my major since I couldn’t get an internship, and the work is pretty tough. 

On top of the job parents are unreasonably strict, come up with more rules every day, and favor my siblings. They treat me like a middle schooler and not someone half way done with college. 

And I can barely see my girlfriend because she lives back by my college. We’ll get to see each other every 2-3 weekends, but again my parents don’t give us any alone time so it’s just not the same. Luckily there’s FaceTime otherwise I would go crazy. 

Anyone else like college much more than summer? It sucks",43,447,142.62976167551344,college
I would like to warn you about the possibility of post-college depression. I wish somebody had done the same for me. [Semi long],"If you grew up anything like me, a large focus from age 5-18 was the prospect of going to college. Teachers at school would often talk about it. Parents would start to ask you around age 14 which college you'd like to attend. Your parents' friends ask you if you've made your decision and what your major will be. You make your decision. You leave your crying mother in the car as she drives away after dropping you off freshman year. You change your major. You change it again. You revert back to what it was originally. Graduation day comes, you did it! You passed with flying colors, barely scraped by, or did somewhere in the middle. Selfies with your friends group abound at graduation, all of you swearing you'll remain bestest friends for forever until the end of time, no matter what. Now, you're 5 months post-graduation working your 9-5 and it hits you. ""Man, this *sucks*"". What happened?

While it's impossible to nail down specific causes of this phenomenon for everybody, what I can nail down are some near-universal truths that I've came to realize in the 5 years since I have graduated. 

* Number 1: The lifestyle change can be very jarring. 

I can't remember where I saw it, but somebody said ""College is a weird time in your life because you're effectively an unemployed alcoholic but your parents are still proud of you"". I went from not worrying about having to pay for bills, being surrounded by friends, going to one three hour lecture every other day (rest of my classes were online), and partying every weekend to busting my ass at a ""grown up"" job in a new city with very few people that I knew. Post-college can be extra hard if you move to a new city where you don't know many people or if you go to a familiar city but your friends have all moved away. College is something that is so built up for so many people that once it has came and went, the smile quickly fades as you ask yourself ""So I have worked my whole life up to this point for this moment and now that it's over, what do I do?""

* Number 2: Maintaining friendships after college is much more difficult 

When you're in college, all you have time to do is study and hang out with your friends. You have thousands of people around your age that you have something in common with. A surefire way to introduce yourself is to ask somebody what their name and major are. Easy, right? You don't necessarily have this luxury post-college. 

When you graduate from college and move away from your friends, life tends to get in the way. People get boyfriends and girlfriends. People have babies. People get busy with their careers. People find other groups of friends in their town to hang out with. In college, you may have hardly had a choice *but* to make friends. However, afterwards, maintaining friendships can take *a lot* of work. If you're not careful, you can slowly fade away from people who you thought were going to be your life long friends and that can leave you feeling destitute. 

* Number 3: You change A LOT in your 20's (most of the time)

Most people will go to college starting around 18 and graduate when they are 22-25. Zach Braff, who played John Dorian on the TV show ""Scrubs"" has a very profound quote that I agree with whole heartedly. He said ""‎""I have this theory that your body goes through puberty in its teens, and the mind goes through puberty in your twenties."" In my experience, that is SO true. You'll be constantly changing and evolving as you progress through your twenties, your mind catching up with your body. They say that your brain isn't fully developed until you're in your mid-twenties, and I for one can attest to that. As a 26 year old, I am NOT the same person that I was when I graduated a few years ago. I have evolved mentally, physically, and emotionally into a man that any parent would be proud of. However, that comes with a lot of perspective changing and lifestyle-alterations. 

* Number 4: You might realize that the field you selected to study is not the one for you. 

I spent years trying to make law-enforcement type jobs work for me, as a Criminal Justice major (hint; DO NOT STUDY CRIMINAL JUSTICE. Minor in it if you must, but major in something that will give you hard skills such as computer science or accounting). Corrections Officer. Private Investigator. Loss Prevention Detective. I jumped from one position to the next before I came to the conclusion that this field was NOT for me. This depressed the shit out of me because I felt like I was stuck. I did not have any hard skills to show and I was desperate to get out of the field. I remember flying home to visit my parents about 2 years after I graduated. We went out to a Mexican restaurant and I cried at the table because I was so hopelessly destitute about my job situation at that time. Now, through careful maneuvering and by going back to school, I have successfully transitioned into IT and I love it. If you do not like where you are career-wise, change it. It sucks having to start all over again from the bottom, but I am a hell of a lot happier than I was making 3x what I'm making now. 

As I said in the title, this is a story of the *possibility* of post-college depression. I do realize that many people will not experience this, but many people who I have spoken to about the matter have, including myself. 

The very very TL;DR of this post is that life after college is depressing and takes some adjusting to, friendships are something that you have to work at to maintain, and if you find out your major isn't for you, take steps to get out of that field. 
",50,447,591.9383959347728,college
Has anyone else's professor(s) done anything this cute/cool?,,36,440,492.1672732495875,college
I got a 4.0 while taking 20 credits and didn’t hate my life. Here’s how.," 

This is a story about how this spring semester, I got straight A’s in 20 credits worth of classes while also working part time, volunteering, securing a summer internship, trying not to neglect my relationships, exercising daily, and getting 8 hours of sleep. 

&#x200B;

Not trying to “flex” \*hello fellow kids\*, but I see a lot of people asking for advice, especially new students, wondering if their credit load will overwhelm them.  I hope this helps someone.  \*\*\*TDLR at the bottom\*\*\*

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**A Brief History:**

I am a 25 yo female who just finished my “Junior” year of undergrad. “Junior” because it was my fourth year of college and I have a ton of credits, but I still have a full academic year before I graduate. After high school, I dragged ass and essentially failed out after two years of an unrelated degree (art), took three years off, then went back two years ago for my current degree.

When I left school, I was absolutely convinced that I was dropping out of college, not taking a break. I had anxiety attacks before attending class, felt extremely lost, could barely pay attention in lecture, and struggled with substance abuse. I finished my last semester with a semester GPA of 1.9 and a total GPA of 2.5. Yikes. 

In high school, I was one of those “gifted” but burnt out kids. My teachers always said I was smart, but it was such a shame that I refused *apply* myself. After taking a break from school and doing some soul searching, I decided: I’m a fucking adult, I’m going back to college, for real this time. I’m going to apply my goddamn self. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**About my degree:**

I’m studying public health. To me, my degree is the perfect mix of “hard science” classes and humanities classes. I take classes in the realm of microbiology, A&P, epidemiology, anthropology, sociology, and ethics. The mix of memorization-style studying and critical thinking, writing essays and discussion style work makes it so that I’m never bored. (I go to a large state school in the northwest U.S. if that matters to you). 

This is the part where someone butts in and says you could never do this with a STEM degree. Sure. Probably not. I’m not saying that every person regardless of major should take my advice, just trying to share what I have learned. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**The Decision:**

I do a little mental checklist before I assemble a semester’s worth of classes (because advisors are useless- you already *know*). This particular semester, it just somehow worked out that I wasn’t going to be taking any classes that required large amounts of difficult studying. I don’t mean work, but *studying.* That is not to say that I didn’t do any work. I still had shit to do. Readings to skim, essays to write, research to do, the works. But I didn’t really *study*, which takes up a lot more abstract time than *doing.* 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**My Classes:** 

I took 4 three credit courses and 2 four credit courses. All but two of my courses were 400 level classes with a significant amount of work. (If you’re curious: 3 credit 200 level medical anthropology and a 3 credit 100 level earth science class- my last core requirement)

I like to breakdown my classes at the beginning of the semester based on how difficult I deem them to be. You can usually figure this out by the first couple weeks of class, or after the first graded assignment. How much work will this require time-wise and brain-power-wise, and how big of a hardass grader is the prof? THIS is a big deal. Once I figured this out, college seemed so much more like a game. I would highly recommend doing this, you can reassess throughout the semester and as you learn more about your own grade in the class. I typically write my courses on a sticky note in order of priority and slap it in my planner. Speaking of which:

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**Planner set up:**

I need a paper planner. It’s absolutely non-negotiable. I could not survive college without one, and you shouldn’t try to. I bring it everywhere. I’ve tried bullet journaling, keeping a to-do list in a notebook, google calendar- none of them compare to the ease of use and accuracy of a paper planner. A typical week in mine looks like [this!](https://imgur.com/a/r5qhd0i)

&#x200B;

At the beginning of the semester, I write the time every class takes place in my weekly spread A4 Target planner. Then, I go through the syllabus and enter every single thing next to when it is due. For each week of the semester, I have two sticky notes on the page. I do this because inevitably things get moved around. In my photo, you can see that the smaller yellow note is for readings, and the large pink one is my ongoing to-do list. The readings being separate is important because otherwise everything gets clogged up, and I can see at a glance what I need to read (or skim, or pretend to have read). I organize my to-do list by class, and have a section for “life”. The first thing I do every morning is look at my planner, and it’s one of the last things I look at before I go to bed. As soon as I sit down in class, I open it up. When making plans with a friend, I open it up. I can’t overstate this enough. Get a planner and use the shit out of it. 

&#x200B;

**Work:** 

I had the unique situation of not having to work that much this semester. I received a federal grant that paid for most of my tuition, scholarships paid for the rest, and my family helps me out with part of my living expenses. This is obviously not everyone’s reality.

The last three semesters, I have worked up to 30 hours each week, and it really is fucking hard. Working takes up a lot of your time and energy, and I wouldn’t recommend working while taking this heavy of a course load. 

That being said, I did still work. I like working. I like having money, I like the structure and I like having something productive besides school to do. In the past, I was an assistant teacher at a private preschool. This semester, I was lucky enough to be able to substitute teach at least one 6 hour shift each week because of my school schedule (Fridays off, Thursdays half off). I also babysat a couple of nights each week pretty consistently. This ended up being about 10-15 hours a week of work- an easy couple hundred bucks in my pocket for rent and nights out. The best part about this situation is that if I was really swamped, I could just completely opt out of work or not schedule anything. When I wasn’t busy with school, I could put in a 20 hour workweek. It put me in control.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**Volunteering:**

I taught adaptive skiing on Sundays. I ski with an 8-year-old girl with Down syndrome, and it is exhausting, but rewarding. Our days consisted of me chasing after her, singing songs, managing tantrums, and hoisting her up off the snow. I laughed a lot. Despite thinking that I might over-stretch myself at the beginning, this experience was additive to my life. I felt refreshed, motivated, and happy because I had this kind of volunteering in my schedule. I include this not to brag, but to recommend some type of meaningful volunteering or work if you can. If you think you’re too busy to do good things in the world, you’re not. Promise. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**Relationships:**

You know the triangle. Choose one: sleep, get A’s, or have a social life.

Here’s the thing. I’m 25. Sort-of non-traditional, but I’m still in my twenties. I still have friends who like to go out, still go to shows, stay up too late, etc. But, my friends are also adults. None of my friends who are nurses, teachers, or baristas want to go out until midnight on a Thursday anymore. None of my non-student friends are free in the middle of the day to go fuck around or distract me. When I tell my friends I can’t come out because I’m studying, they’re not giving me shit for it. 

I still made a point to set aside time on Saturday’s to spend time with my friends. Typically we would ski, go out for coffee, or make each other breakfast.  

Another factor in this realm is my boyfriend. Boyfriend works 9-5, so my motivation to not do any schoolwork after dinner was intensified in order to hang out with my person. Boyfriend makes me dinner on nights that I have class until 8pm. Boyfriend gets toilet paper at the store because I’m stuck in the library.  Boyfriend wakes me up with coffee telling me he is proud of me. Can you tell that my love language is acts of service?

I’m not telling you to ignore your friends if they’re distracting and get a partner who does stuff for you, but to consider which relationships in your life are additive and which are less so. It’s fine to have fun and make memories; you’re in college. But if you say yes to every single opportunity, you will find yourself out of balance.

My point here with relationships is this: make sure the people who love you know what is going on with you. Let them know that you want to hang out, but you’re reaching for your goals.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**Work Ethic:**

For me, relying on motivation alone has never helped me. I need to “hack” my environment in order to do what I need to do. 

I woke up at 6:30 every single day, including weekends. On weekdays, I would arrive on campus around 7:45 and either go to class or go to the library. The quiet floor or the law library are clutch. No coffee shops, no cafeteria, no house. If there is any ambient noise or people having conversations around me, I cannot function. I am there to do work and focus. If you’re only half-working, you’re spending twice the amount of time on work. I straight up didn’t have the time to only half-work.

In a typical day, I will sit down at a desk, open up my planner and my laptop, decide which item on my to-do list is the perfect combination of “finishability” and time-urgency.  My phone is on grey-scale and I deleted my social media apps this January and haven't looked back. I listen to 432 Hz white noise music in noise-cancelling earbuds. 

&#x200B;

I’m very bad at time. My brain does not conceptualize it passing. I wear a watch religiously, and set timers for everything- Otherwise I get sucked into the hyper-focus wormhole. I set a ten minute timer to get set up and decide what to do, otherwise I will agonize about what the “perfect” thing to do is. Then, I set a timer for 30 minutes, and lean into whatever I have decided to do. After this, I take a break, walk around, take my earbuds out, get some water or coffee, but do not turn my phone back on. And repeat. Before I know it, my work is done or it is time to go to class.

&#x200B;

If I don’t have anything to do, but it is still “work” time, I will research grad programs, apply for internships, go to professors office hours, or read about work that people I admire do. This paid off in the end of the semester, as a professor casually mentioned that I would get along well with another professor in a different department. I meet up with Prof #2, she was impressed that I had already read about her work and offered me a paid summer internship. 

&#x200B;

**Exercise:** 

Exercise is another non-negotiable in my life. I have border-collie level energy. I need to exercise. If I’m feeling overwhelmed, tired, or stuck, a run almost always helps. I lift weights 4 days a week, my routine usually takes about an hour. I either Nordic or downhill ski with my friends on Saturdays, volunteer on Sundays, and have two hours of yoga a week built into my schedule. No exercise = poor sleep = too tired to workout = eat like crap = I can’t focus= I get overwhelmed= whole system falls apart. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

**What I did that actually helped me succeed.** 

* Campus library is my “office” from 8-5 every single weekday. 
* Paper planner is your BIBLE.
* Delete social media. Turn off your phone. Really.
* Work in chunks. For my brain, 30 minutes with a timer and then a small break is ideal. 
* Prioritize, prioritize prioritize. You’re going to have to bullshit some assignments and toil over others. Make your efforts count.
* If you don’t think you have any school work to do at any given time, you’re wrong. You can always work ahead. 
* Habits trump motivation every time. Motivation wanes, but if you’re in the groove, you’re way less likely to fall behind. 
* Never. Ever. Ever. Skip. Class. 
* This seems obvious, but do every single assignment and every single extra credit opportunity, no matter how minuscule or annoying. 
* Support system. Tell your friends & family what you’re trying to achieve and let them know how they can *help* you.
* Don’t forget to feed yourself and exercise.
* Set aside intentional time for non-school. Ideally a full day on the weekend. 
* Say no. Say NO. Explain yourself, be kind, but say fucking no. 
* Nobody is productive every single hour of every day. It’s ok. Perfect is truly the enemy of the good. 
* Have an end goal. Visualize walking at graduation. See your GPA climb.
* If you’re a non-traditional age considering going back to school- do it. School is infinitely easier with an adult brain, adult friends, and adult priorities. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Finally, if you fucked up this semester, its ok. It really is. I’ve been there. My sophomore year, I ended the spring semester with one D, two Cs, an F and a W. It doesn’t feel good. Just remember that it doesn’t say anything about your worth as a person. Beating yourself up about it isn't going to help in the long run. You are not forever the person who fucked up, and you can use what you did wrong to learn and grow and change. 

Also, remember that succeeding and trying your best doesn’t have to be miserable. You can still enjoy the things that bring meaning to your life while trying to do something difficult. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

TLDR: I got a 4.0 while being busy. It didn’t suck because I had a perfect storm of mindset, abilities, organization, and circumstance.",50,444,168.38351167551343,college
Professor is accusing me of cheating off another student I've never spoken to. Wtf do I do? Online class.,"

EDIT: 
The other student took my discussion board post and used it for their essay. I used my own post for the essay, just added fluff to it. This is why it got flagged as word for word. Hopefully he changes my grade, since I can't control what another student takes from discussion boards that are visible for all. 




----OP-----


I checked my grade on an essay yesterday, it was a 0 and had a comment from the professor ""did you cheat off of x or did x cheat off of you?"" I didn't recognize the name, so I replied asking what they meant, I only used one source for my work and it was the text book given, and I quoted every source. 

Then I looked through the students names and realized x is another student in the online class with me, I've never even replied to one of their comments on a discussion board. 

I emailed the professor again explaining that I don't know the student, and would like to see their work to compare. 

Professor replied with my essay and highlighted a part that was ""almost word for word"" from the other students. And said ""this is not a coincidence""

This guy obviously is not going to believe me, but I know the truth. The other student knows the truth. What can I do to get this figured out? I can't fail this class. I don't want to be accused of something I did not do, especially when it's plagiarism. 

",35,444,369.11828019403197,college
"In Your Opinion, What is the Scariest Thing About College?",,251,441,97.16165982366161,college
What is your study routine?,I’m starting school on Monday and want to develop a good study routine. What does your study routine consist of for your courses?,86,442,62.86767834218012,college
Who here actually stuck to the major they started with?,"I'm about to tell my entire family that I've decided to change majors and the backlash is going to be horrific to say the least. To help ease the blow I want to be able to prove beyond a doubt that changing majors is not that uncommon and I'm not going to end up on drugs, homeless, and in jail because I'm changing majors. Yes that's how they will react. Pleeeaaase help. 

Edit: Thank you to everyone who has responded! I have been doing online school thus far to get my bachelors in psychology, but I never really felt passionate about psychology and was really only excited for the financial stability. I'm switching to a nursing program and I should be on track to graduate at about the same time I would if I stuck with psych, give or take a few months. Nursing actually excites me and I just feel like it's what I should have done a long time ago. My family is just not supportive of pretty much anything I do (basically I get a lot of ""Why aren't you graduating early?"" ""Why don't you work full time while you go to school full time?"" ""Why haven't you graduated already?"") They put a lot of pressure on me to be like some super human who can finish 4 years worth of college in 1 year. I have told my mom, she's a nurse herself so you can imagine she wasn't mad about it. I live on my grandma's property and she helps me pay for school which is part of why it's going to be a huge deal when I tell her. But, letting her know I'm not the only one will help! I will update this post when I tell her. I'm waiting on a meeting with a counselor to see if I can get into an accelerated program first. ",180,438,261.87471537921715,college
anyone else have a hard time retaining information after reading a chapter?,"Classes beginning and we're supposed to read a 1 chapter before each class-

i have no problem reading- but the moment i finish the chapter everything is literally forgotten-

so what was the point of reading?",58,439,271.31937973106903,college
"When I’m in my room by myself, I wish I was out doing things with people. When I’m with people, I wish I was by myself in my room.",:/,20,435,557.7855371384765,college
Introvert sentiments.,Do you ever feel like just not talking?  Like just being quiet for a day and not saying anything to anyone for no unknown or for a very stranger reason.  ,65,438,352.3533033421801,college
Do we do note porn in this sub?,,82,435,575.1274584347727,college
Having your bf/gf stay the night in your dorm,"Hello! I’m about to start my sophomore year of college. Last year, I spent a year commuting to a community college so I still lived at home. This year, I’ve transferred to a university and my boyfriend is also going to the same school. It’s a public university so there isn’t any religious restrictions. I wanted to ask if having your SO stay the night in your dorm is a good thing to do. I actually have a single room and so does he so neither of us have to deal with a roommate. I’m assuming that it won’t be a problem since there isn’t any gender restrictive rules set in either of our dorms. Like I asked, I just want to know if it’s really worth it or is it a waste of time and energy?

Thank everyone!",61,429,68.60890519403198,college
What course from your major scares students the most?,"In other words, what is the weed out class for your major or the class that has people saying ""shit, I better change my major.""?

&#x200B;

I'm just curious. I heard two students on the bus talking about their weed out classes and I found it interesting how each one had a different experience. One was a music major and she was talking about some theory classes that 10 students dropped after their first exam grades came in. ",432,429,227.0525973236616,college
Feeling pretty sad about finishing another semester,"This is only my second year and I haven't started my last assignment yet but I can't help feeling kinda down about the semester coming to an end. It was pretty intense and, in some ways, I'm glad I will have time to work on other things over the summer but time is just flying by so quickly and seniors are graduating and soon I will be as well. I'm already halfway done and the second half is probably going to be way quicker than the first. 

Anyone else feel this way?",39,432,165.2764399162542,college
Roommate blends smoothies at 5am in the morning...,"I live in a house with 3 other girls, and one of them has to wake up early for Clinical and blends her loud ninja blender at 5am every morning and it scares all of us awake. Am I allowed to say anything or how would someone recommend approaching the roommate about it? ",142,428,324.3914283421801,college
How to Deal With Chronic Masturbator in Public Restroom...,"Hey, so there's a kinda gross dude on our floor who walks to the bathroom at least 20 times a day. He probably has some legitimate bowel issues, but along with the normal bathroom sounds, we're greeted with a *thwap* *thwap* *Slap* that is unmistakably him jacking off. Last year he got a reputation for jacking off in his old dorm, so it's not just speculation. The other day he straight up walked in with a bottle of lotion, he doesn't give a fuck anymore. We've complained to our RA's but they first didn't believe us, then were too uncomfortable to approach the guy. We put an ""out of order"" sign on the stall that everyone else uses, hoping it'd deter him, but he's now jacked off in every single stall, and it's honestly just gross. The worst part is that he the fuck has a single! he jack off in the stalls because he gets a rise out of it, it's just gross all around... Any advice?",94,431,513.2602014903282,college
"OH Please, tell me more about how this loose-leaf textbook is saving me money.",,92,436,656.8687200088468,college
Is it possible to just be BAD at math?,"People say *""you can't be bad at math, you're just lazy""* or *""you're not studying correctly.""*

Meanwhile I've worked my ass off to get two C's and one B in my 3 pre-calculus classes (business major here on quarter system at my community college, have to take calculus next). I understand the material, and I'm not the WORST test taker, I go to office hours, but math just doesn't come naturally to me. I hate being called ""lazy"" for not acing math. I work hard, I have all A's and B's except for my math classes.

Here's my question:

I took piano lessons for YEARS as a kid (parents forced me to) and I was never a natural at it. I sucked at reading music notes (especially quickly), I struggled with understanding the measure and beats and all that (never understood the difference between 6/8, 3/4, etc.), it took me weeks to play a song with only a few mistakes. *I had NO rhythm.* I was never told that I was ""lazy"" or ""practicing wrong"", people just told me that music wasn't for me.

Why isn't it the same way with math?

edit: Got it. Got your DMs calling me lazy, stupid, etc. I get it, I'm an idiot.

I'm so frustrated. My brother, a software engineer, has said ""I suck at writing/English"" forever, nobody batted an eye. My parents love him, yet hate me.

People say they suck at history, writing, philosophy, drawing, acting, dancing, music... nobody cares. With math? Suddenly, I'm not working hard enough?

Thanks for making me feel shittier than I already felt. Can always count on you, Reddit. :(

I think I'm done. Nothing is for me.",104,428,75.97146306440234,college
I'm an Adjunct Professor and We're Preparing to Go on Strike,"Posting this because I figure it's useful for students to understand how their universities function and because I'd like to know how students would respond if their professors went on strike.

First some background for people who don't know how the adjunct thing operates; you can skip ahead if you're familiar.

Adjuncts are faculty members who work part-time for the university and are typically paid very little, around $3000-5000 a semester for a 3 credit course. There's two main varieties of adjuncts. The first are the Industry Adjuncts -- these are people who've had substantive careers outside academia and are returning to share their expertise. The second are Career Adjuncts -- these are people who want to be professors and start teaching right out of grad school. Industry Adjuncts are typically well off financially from their previous jobs, many are in retirement, and they get paid more for their classes (some getting more than $10,000). This post is about Career Adjuncts -- the people who grind out a living working multiple jobs at once and are hoping they'll eventually get a full time teaching job, even if it's not tenure track. Most of the adjuncts you'll encounter are the Career Adjuncts, they're the ones teaching the 100 level courses and are nearly half the faculty at some universities.

My current pay rate is just over $4,000 per course. So, if I wanted to earn a moderately decent salary of $48,000/yr (with zero benefits!) I'd need to teach 12 classes. A standard full-time teaching load for a professor with no committee or research responsibilities is 6 per year (usually 3 Fall, 3 Spring, what we call a 3/3 load). My university caps each adjunct at only 3 courses per year; if we want to teach more, we have to find other universities to work at.

The head of my department recently decided that adjuncts would no longer be given preference in hiring for full time positions, so being able to use the job as a bridge to a full time teaching career is no longer an option. The department also recently hired so many new adjuncts that it's now difficult for us to even get 3 courses a year and most are going to be limited to a 1/1 load.

We're going to soon be renegotiating our contract with the university, and the university has been adamant about not increasing our salaries (we do get pay bumps, but it's equivalent to a 2% raise, so basically just matches inflation).

Technically, we're not allowed to strike under our current contract. But, the contract says absolutely nothing about what our actual teaching responsibilities are. If the university is unwilling to budge on pay, then we're looking at putting our job expectations on the table. Here's what it would look like:

If a normal work week is 40 hours, and a normal full time load for a semester is 3 courses, then each course is roughly 13:20 per week. Based on our low pay rate though, the university is entitled to only half that: 6 hours, 50 minutes per week per course. Keep in mind that 2:30 of that is already classroom time, with some extra going to getting to class a bit early to set up, and staying late a few minutes to talk to students. That leaves about 4 hours left for office hours, lesson planning, answering student e-mails, writing assignments, grading papers, etc. There's also often faculty meetings which will take up about 1:30 every few weeks.

I teach a small, writing intensive class with about 20 students. If I want to return essays in a timely manner (we're urged to do it within 1 week), I can spend a full 12 minutes on each individual essay, and that's if I do *nothing* but grade outside of class (no lesson planning, nothing). Normally an 8-10 page paper will take me about 45 minutes to grade, and 10-12 takes about an hour. But, if the university refuses to purchase that service, they may pay for my 12 minute essay analysis which consists of a quick read of the paper, marking any obvious grammatical errors, circling the relevant sections on the grading rubric, and writing a sentence or two in response. This is the course where we're supposed to be teaching you how to write academic essays, and I have to seriously consider eliminating essay writing from my curriculum.

Since we can't strike, our alternative is to provide a bare minimum education.

If you're a student, this should piss you off quite a bit. My university charges about $1,400 per credit hour, so each student is paying $4,200 to be there, and combined the class has a sticker price of $84,000. I see about 5% of that. Realistically, after scholarships, my students are maybe paying $50,000 total, but I still get less than 10% of that.

The sad truth is that you do *not* get what you pay for. You pay the university, and the you get what the university pays for, and the university is a cheap bastard. In order for the situation to get better for adjuncts, we're going to need students to be much more aware of how little of their tuition goes to pay for their education. Also your parents (they're really the university's target audience).

Now just to head off a couple responses I know this is likely to draw:

""If you don't like it, why not just work somewhere else?"" Because I want to teach college students. Getting a job teaching, any job teaching, including shitty adjunct ones, is tough. But that aside, *someone* has to teach the class, and if it's not me, it'll be someone else in the exact same situation. Changing the personnel doesn't change the conditions.

""Why are you taking it out on the students?"" I'm not. I have a menu of services I offer, and the university may decide which they are willing to pay for. It's the university deciding to only pay for a bare bones education while charging top dollar. ...Also, I'm completely willing to take a couple picnic blankets out to the quad to hold lessons and give feedback on essays there on my own time. I'm just going to make sure everyone is crystal clear on what education the university is providing and what education I am providing beyond that.",149,426,90.33616213847641,college
"Can we just make a mega-thread for all the incoming freshmen to post their schedules, ask for advice, etc.?","It gets really annoying scrolling through this sub and seeing literally the same post over and over again this time of year. 

“Any advice for someone starting college in the fall?” 

“What should I bring to my dorm?”

“What do you think of my schedule?”
(We have no idea what those classes are, we don’t go to your school. Also, no one actually gives a flying fuck, it is *your* schedule.)

I understand you all are excited to start college, but use the damn search bar. There’s a 99% chance that whatever question you have has already been answered on this sub 1,000 times.

Edit: People really salty because they don’t know how to utilize the search bar, LOL. Y’all are really so self centered you’ll flood the sub with the same questions over and over again because you believe *your* post deserves special attention.",32,431,139.08859269403197,college
Other students in the midwest—stay safe this week!,"Check if you have a wind chill advisory in your area if you’re unsure. Temperatures are going to be very cold the next couple days, and with wind chill where I live will be down to between -30 and -40 °F. That’s frostbite in as little as ten minutes. If your classes are cancelled, stay inside! If your classes are not, please stay safe and keep warm. 

My college is not cancelling classes, despite the above information. Anyone from colder regions have hot tips on not freezing?",58,433,260.8238357495875,college
How do you prepare for a new school year?,"Hi, school starts again for me in three weeks. 

Here's a list of things I want to get done before the new school year: 

* Clean bedroom
* Clean study room
* Clean email out
* Clean phone pictures out
* Organize planner
* Update resume and LinkedIn
* Do a degree audit
* Start looking into study abroad programs

What are you guys doing to get ready for school? I am trying to think of things I should get done while I have time, because when school starts I am going to be busy.",47,428,69.97334963847642,college
"After 3 years of work, I've got a 4.0!","I'm sorry if this doesn't belong here, but I'm just giddy with excitement and I have no one to share it with right now. Some of my friends failed so it's not the time for celebration yet. But there's no way I can sleep now. 

Final grades for the last semester have just been released. It was probably the toughest semester of my degree with depression flaring up and I really wanted to quit a few times, but I had some really great professors who helped me through and convinced me to keep going. Letting people know I was struggling was the best thing I've ever done.

I know I don't really need it for anything, but going from a heroin addict at 16 to this is a big deal for me. I'm the first of my family to even *go* to university, and I know they're going to be so happy when I see them. I set myself a real goal and I worked to achieve it. 

To everyone in the US heading into finals: **good luck**! No matter what happens, you'll have achieved something just by doing your best this semester and having a shot! Hopefully you can all get that wave of relief on your results day",44,429,688.4158612125505,college
Why are late emails considered rude ?,"This is a genuine question, why do professors think its a bad thing to send emails late at night/early in the morning ?


Today, one of my professors apologized for sending an email Saturday night at like 10pm. And my math professor told us not to email him after 8pm.

I personally dont find it rude, I just wait until the morning to respond for them. I dont do it, out of respect for them but I work late at night and I usually have questions. I dont expect them to answer at night either, but if I want to ask a question I'd rather just send it asap before I forget and get a response from them the next day.

Its not a big of a deal, I think Im just lost on email ettiqute at times, hahah",58,431,225.8121459347727,college
"Best part of exams, post exam pint",,29,428,456.5987315829209,college
Should I go to classes/ student jobs today if I have a cold?,"Hi,

I am wondering if I should attend most of my classes and go to my student job today if I am having a cold? I am having a constant urge to poop throughout the day, coughing a lot, and enduring headaches. I was planning to attend classes where there is a quiz and info about the homework.",49,425,13.444391305143084,college
So my professor put a 65/10 instead of a 6.5/10 and now it secured my A in the class. What should I do?,"I was at an 84 in the class. I was slowly bringing up my grade throughout the class with good test grades, etc. Now I'm at a 98% and will estimate to have a 95% by the end of the course. 

I told him there was a mistake in the grading, and he asked me to email him. I haven't emailed him. Should I? How wrong is it? Can I get in trouble?

Edit: My course of action is to probably not say anything unless he points it out. If he even does remember that I pointed a mistake out earlier, I will just tell him that I honestly forgot to email him about it.

Edit2: I realize it was dumb to tell him in retrospect, knowing that I'm not planning on coming clean. But at the time, I thought he was gonna give me some extra points for honesty, so I told him. It was only after I told him that I realized I'm an idiot and should just keep my mouth shut. So now I'm just playing it off like I just forgot to email him.",102,420,500.0306644532912,college
My mental health is always a mess before every semesters,"Does anyone else experience this?? 

Before every semester, I get this intense feeling of doom. It starts off as anxiety (I’m already medicated for it) whenever I think about college because it stems into a million different thoughts. It gets really bad all day until it breaks and I get a sense of relief

Then something usually happens that comforts me about it all, and I feel really good about it. Then I start feeling really depressed. I don’t really recognize it until I’ll do something to prepare for college (like getting books) and I’ll just start sobbing. I won’t actually be sad or worried, but I’ll start crying a lot. Then it basically happens every day until almost a month after the semester started. 

I’ve tried seeing a school counselor, but they refuse to actually help me because they only want to deal with on campus students and not commuters. 

Does anyone have any experience with this or know what I can do to fix it? I’m a second semester junior and I’ve been struggling with this since the beginning of freshman year. I was totally fine in high school.

EDIT: Semester* (can’t edit title) ",65,423,280.43190287921715,college
"When taking notes, do you TYPE or HANDWRITE?","I prefer the traditional method of handwriting my notes but I get a feeling that it won’t work for college where long lectures are the usual. 

How do you guys write your notes? 

Edit: thank you guys so much for your note taking tips! As a high school senior, I’ll definitely implement these into my many, many and many note taking sessions in college!",175,422,201.03138204588382,college
"FAU student threatens to kill professor for scheduling 7 a.m. final exam, police say",,53,414,318.2655950088468,college
Things to buy for college!,"What are things that you found out that you needed once you reached college (dorm supplies, school supplies, etc)? \[More of the obscure, random stuff that one wouldn't think to pack\] And same vice versa, what are things that you found out you didn't need? 

&#x200B;

Thanks yalls!",181,416,93.8713473236616,college
Where to poop on campus?,"The art building. 
You get to see some interesting stuff on the way to the domain.
It’s clean.
And usually smells amazing.",94,422,545.3433033421801,college
I need your opinion on this roommate issue,"So it was 10pm and I jumped in the shower. When I came out less than 15 minutes later, all the lights were out including my desk lamp. I've never turned out all the lights on him, in fact, I've kept his on all night when he went out before. So I stumbled across the dark room and turned my lamp on so I could get ready for bed. Being frustrated that he turned my lamp off, I sat down for a while and started doing work on the computer for my class. he preceded to tell me to go to the library if i needed light. Keep in mind it was only 10:30 at this point. he yelled at me a bunch and even ignored me when I was talking. he is always loud when I am sleeping and I try to be quiet, but I guess i'm done trying to tip toe around. I'm always as considerate as can be while he has issues with that I guess. We usually turn the big light off around 10, but it's been later in the past when he's doing homework still or he takes a shower. he gets up before me most mornings and his desk lamps, plural, face right into my eyes, but i flip over and go back to sleep. I would understand him if it was later in the night, but it was 10:30. If he wouldn't have turned my lamp off, it wouldn't have been an issue. Petty, I know but it was my breaking point I guess. Oh, i just heard his phone go off, he never turns the ringer off at night, but I live with it because that's what you do as a roommate. You can't have everything your way. So what do you all think?",76,418,218.3115093606986,college
Anybody else struggling to get a job for after graduation?,"I don’t know what I’m doing wrong. I graduated near the top of my class in a business program, currently doing a masters program at a top school, yet all the big companies keep turning me down. I feel like I need to lower my expectations. 

At one point, a recruiter who turned me down even said “you will have no issue with getting a job.” 

Has anybody else been in this situation? ",107,414,272.4204445458838,college
"How do you do, fellow college student?",,16,414,313.06941445329124,college
Am I the only one who has a heart attack whenever I wake up before my alarm clock rings in the fear that I overslept for a class?,Just wondering because this happened at least ten times already and this probably isn't good for my health and sanity.,31,416,619.0750163051431,college
"I swear 99% of University promo photos are either ""Student pointing at thing whilst another looks above their shoulder"" or ""multicultural group in the grass smiling""",,10,414,1292.5938010273653,college
Anyone Who Did Bad In High School But Did Great In College?,Is there anyone who got Cs and Ds In high school but had As and Bs in college? If so why do you think that’s the case?,174,411,140.4631760273653,college
Can a college limit the amount of packages a student can receive?,"I'll preface this by saying it's probably a dumb question and I probably just misinterpreted a joke.

Anyways, I receive a package once a week every week. I drink a lot of coffee, so I have an auto-ship set up for Keurig pods. This morning when I went to go pick up my package, the guy in the mail room said something among the lines of, ""Wow, another package? Might have to limit that.""

I can't tell if he was being genuine or just messing with me. Is there any reason why a college would limit the amount of packages any student could receive?

Thanks.",49,413,206.36752787921716,college
So wtf do I do with my life?,"I’m going to college this fall but like I really don’t know what I want to do, like at all. I’m very scared since my biggest fear is ending up in a job that I absolutely hate. Does anyone have any advice they could give me. Thanks.",81,411,70.60973852736531,college
"How much harder, really, are classes at top universities?","So I'm a second year community college student and I was lucky enough to get an early response from WashU and will be attending the following Fall. Lately, I've been thinking about my study habits thus far...I have a 3.9 GPA but I'm also very very lazy, and I like to try and minimize the amount of work I actually have to do. Part of me wonders if I was able to get away with that because I go to a community college and whether I will have a rude awakening transitioning to a top university. I think the general consensus among almost everyone is that classes become more difficult at more elite institutions, and I'm just wondering if there's any truth in that assumption, and if so to what extent.",76,408,172.06501630514308,college
What do you guys do for your small breaks between studying?,"This is the first time I've had to do nothing but study for the entire day (and it looks like I'll be doing that a few more times this week). After the first few hours I have to start taking more breaks otherwise I can't focus for an extended period of time. What are your best, mentally refreshing break methods? I've just been watching a YouTube video once an hour or so.",145,412,178.11852324958753,college
Goodbyes are a bitch,"I’m moving across the country tomorrow and saying goodbye to family and friends was difficult. I feel dumb saying this, but I didn’t expect my grandparents to cry nor my aunt and cousin. It wasn’t fun to watch. I told them I’ll be back for thanksgiving before they know it and I’ll respond to their emails and texts. The whole moving thing feels very real now. A week ago it hadn’t hit me.",32,404,58.0882223236616,college
Do you ever feel uncomfortable walking around campus?,There are so many strangers and I feel like I don’t know anyone. I feel like I should be talking to more people but when you’re in public you’re supposed to keep to yourself. How did you get rid of this feeling?,74,408,48.236150564402344,college
No More Chili Pepper: RateMyProfessors Ditches ‘Hotness’ Ratings,,37,401,474.19633574958755,college
"University of Chicago becomes first elite college to make SAT, ACT optional for applicants",,65,404,490.1797732495875,college
Holy shit i found my major!,"So I went to college for areo space  engineering and found that I wasn't having fun. I was told that your major was supposed to make you want to get up and go to the classes and do anything pertaining to it and that field just didn't do it for me.

 So for the last semester I've been focusing on work taking intro classes. And one of those was intro into wildlife and fisheries. I thought ""what the hell I like camping and hunting and such I'll just go with it. "" 

Well a semester later Ive  changed my major to a wildlife and fisheries management and I'm shooting to become a game warden. All of my classes take place outside at multiple points throughout the semester. I am engaged in classes and I find myself up at 6 am going to the parks and woods near where I live studying for exams!  I just spent 3 hours learning trees and there scientific names and I had a blast! I never would have guessed that with me having a huge adversion to AG related sciences in highschool (mostly due to idiotic people and teachers) that I would end up doing this.  I've found my major and I'm extremely excited. 

Edit : misspelled words ",53,399,994.309703805143,college
"Just a reminder to all of the recent HS grads, this is a scam. Don't do it.",,53,407,1608.205166768106,college
FAFSA questions? Get help here!,"The [FAFSA](http://www.fafsa.gov) for the 2019-2020 school year opened on October 1, 2018. If you plan to attend college during the 2019-2020 school year, you should submit a FAFSA if you are eligible to do so.

The 2020-2021 FAFSA will open October 1, 2019.

First time? Here's what you need to do:

1. Create an [FSA ID](https://fsaid.ed.gov/npas/index.htm). If you are a dependent student, one of your parents will need to make one as well. This is your legal, electronic signature. You cannot submit the FAFSA without one. If your parent already has an FSA ID (for themselves or for other children), they must use that one.

2. Gather all necessary documents, including bank statements, tax information (W-2s, tax returns), any records of untaxed income, etc.

3. Start the FAFSA! If you or your parent are given the option to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool, use it! It will drag tax information from the IRS straight to the FAFSA and save you a lot of time.

FAFSA questions posted on /r/college must be in this thread. Standalone posts will be removed.

**I am a financial aid expert and will be happy to answer any questions you may have.**",1398,400,232.2596112125505,college
Michael Bloomberg: Why I’m Giving $1.8 Billion for College Financial Aid,,26,401,333.02177556440233,college
My college gave a pyramid scheme company permission to hand out flyers. Apparently this company is rather large. only posting to prevent college students from getting scammed. link in the comments,,81,398,765.2781065829208,college
"Everyone says ""go to office hours"", but I don't get what that means?","One of the most common pieces of advice people give out is to ""go to office hours"", likely so your professors know you and can later be a reference or give a recommendation. Right now I have pretty much nothing to say to my professors, and I am really confused with it and the whole concept in general.

- If I have no questions for my professor, what am I supposed to do at my professor's office hours? Some people have said just introduce yourself, but I wouldn't this come off as awkward and or a waste of the professor's time if I have nothing important to say?

- How often should I go to office hours, so the professor knows me well? Do I just continuously show up asking the professor random questions about the content?

- How do I keep up a relationship with a professor after I finish their class so they don't forget about me?

- How many of my professors do I need to actually go to? I have 5 this semester, and I'm going to have many more throughout college. I doubt I need to know more than a dozen professors well throughout my college career.

- Are first-year professors as important as later year professors for references/recommendations? Are major-related professors more important?",51,392,403.04885889773567,college
How do you study for bio classes where everything you need to know to get an A is in lecture slides.,"Should I make flash cards on everything?
Should I just read slides over and over again?
Should I re write the slides?
What works for you guys? 
The professor told are class if you know my slides you can potentially get a 100% on everything. There are so many slides with lots of info on each.",78,396,123.33921769403197,college
I lived through one of the worst nightmares a college student could have...,"I missed my final. 

I came into class, after studying for my last final of the semester and came into class early to chat among people - to get some hints and tips. But 5 minutes before class, no one showed up. A thought came to my head, I quickly checked the syllabus, and before I knew it - the final was not yesterday, but TWO days ago.  

Every single professor I've had has split their week in half (going for the latter day) to have their final, so I automatically assumed that my final would be Thursday. So I basically just shit my pants when I found out that was not the case with this class. 

I panicked and walked out of the classroom, emailing my professor - ""Hey, I missed my final. If I can retake it, that would be awesome but if not I respect your decision and will accept my grade""

After shitting myself for a couple minutes, he emails back almost immediately - saying that we'll ""talk"" in 10 minutes, since he was heading there. (Which I did not know, thought class was cancelled).

And, after some consideration, he says that he knows I have perfect attendance for the class and have great grades in it - and he will let me take the final...NO PENALTY. 

I probably didn't do too hot on the final, but it's a lot better than a fucking zero. 

So the lesson learned here is the generic: do well in class because it will payoff when you act like a dumbass.",21,393,167.83852324958752,college
Is this a normal thing for exam averages to be this low in other colleges? (Chem),,87,393,179.96699547180975,college
What are some stories of students calling classmates out over messed up behavior?,,101,394,233.00808343477271,college
I failed. 1.92 GPA. I don’t know where to go from here.,"*Edit 2: this post is getting a lot of attention, I just want to thank everyone for their advice. I definitely see my flaws. I have a game plan now on how to approach this next semester. It’s a hill to climb, and I will do it. Thank you!*

In Highschool I was the kid who could get off without studying. 3.8 GPA for the kid who took AP classes, partied, listened to punk rock and showed up late to class.

First semester of college. I get A- in Chem, C in Physics and flat out fail Calculus. Just because of that one stupid fucking class my GPA is below the minimum and now I’m stuck. I got issued an academic warning. My first semester was hard. I was forced to commute to college, I got fired from my job and found a new one. My relationship ended. I had to deal with my group of friends being disbanded. And I lost my burning motivation for a split second to keep working out. I didn’t party or drink at all. I showed up to class and did the homework. Guess it wasn’t enough.

Now I’m waiting on an email from my advisor on what to do and what the consequences are.

My game plan for the next semester given they let me continue to take the next sequence of classes, is to cut down the amount of Xbox I play, go to office hours and actually do the problems on the homework. I tried. I really did. I don’t understand I see all these memes and tweets of people praying they pass and they do, but here I am, actually giving it my best, and I fail. I’m hurt and scared. I don’t know what to do. I’m a chem Major and I intend to stick with it.

EDIT: blown away by the support people. I was having an anxiety attack but now I feel better and I have a game plan ",149,391,299.7231528792172,college
Making some radical life changes mid-semester because I noticed I'm failing,"Just failed to turn in a 100pt assignment, bringing my grade down from a 93 to an 83 (temporary obviously still might kill my A). It was really eye opening because I thought I spent hours on this assignment (cancelled plans, multiple work sessions etc.) but I use a program that tracks the time I spend coding and I only spent 2 hours in the last two weeks on this assignment.  2 hours out of probably 10 that I was sitting ""working"". If I had been working that whole time it would definitely be done. I'm hanging in there in my other classes with As but just barely.



If you're in this position, I encourage you to join me in grounding yourself (kind of like your parents did, but think of it as healthy self care instead):


- sleep 11pm-7am 


- no reddit.already have it blocked on my computer, after tomorrow Im blocking it on my phone. Same goes for buzzfeed, quora, netflix etc.


- at least 1-2 hrs coding a day and 3 hours homework 


- i have to go to every professor's office hours this week


- no clubs, time with friends, parties etc. until I'm caught up with school and my job, or until thanksgiving comes (time with partner is ok)


- no more missed or half assed assignments


- no phone during the day. Im going to leave it in my dorm.




General lifestyle things (I'm curious how these will go since some of them are coping mechanisms and I'm super stressed):


- no sugar. Im getting fat and its all because of the sweets. With savory food I stop when full but with sweets I'm an addict.


- 10 mins stretching a day (or more, as a break from studying)


- at least 1 salad a day

- vit d in morning. Melatonin at night


- no drinks but water and tea


- no listening to music during the day( I end up just dancing instead of doing homework)



-no sitting in bed unless its almost bedtime (I spend like 1/2 my life in bed, its terrible. Nothing ever gets done in bed)


- no picking at skin/keep up skin care routine. Tooth whitening. I want to look less like the chubby, neglected asshole I am for my family. I'm going to tackle nail biting over christmas.

Any free time will be spent exercising, basking in the sun, with close friends, doing art, reading, or working through a mindfulness workbook I got. Here's to buckling down and making your parents proud!
 Edit: look at me still on reddit at 1am lol. Was going to add that im down for an accountabolity buddy if someone wantd to join me. ",69,395,346.59292139773567,college
Does anyone else procrastinate assignments because you'll be more motivated to complete it the night before rather than starting earlier?,"also it's much easier to spend like 5 hours on an assignment once, rather than break my work up into 5 seperate hours on different days",55,394,522.2805718606986,college
Is it better to get a degree in your passion or one which would help more with a career?,"Ok I have two passions, I like science and art. I make beautiful art (ngl) and people tell me all the time to go to art school. That would be cool, but I think of art more as a hobby for me. Would I love to make art for a living? Idk because i cant be as creative under deadlines and pressure and plus that's so hard to do, unless I got a techology degree like graphic design. 

But I love marine biology in particular, I love the ocean and ocean life. I know a lot about it from reading books as a kid and exploring. That was also my go to answer when asked what I wanna be when I grow up, marine biologist. However idk what good this would do for me to study other than I love it and it is fascinating.",79,390,94.53609269403196,college
"People who had really strict/controlling/helicopter parents, What was your first year of college away from home like?",,89,385,117.21050241625419,college
Another semester means another batch of people struggling with Calculus. Check out these videos from the University of Houston calculus page as they are extremely informative and the best ones I've found online.,,11,392,637.0466366755135,college
Help my roommates are passed out drunk in the bathroom,What do I do lol. Do I try to like shoulder-carry them to their beds? What if they hit their heads. Or throw up. Do I leave them on the floor for the night? I also need to pee and ones lying next to the toilet,6,384,213.52853482366163,college
Do profs know that students cheat on take-home exams?,"Most classes have multiple choice question tests and they're generally given through our online service (blackboard, moodle, canvas, etc. I'm mentionning this b/c if it was a normal online exam there are anti-cheat measures) But my prof has a complicated test with a lot of diagrams and drawings that students have to complete so they gave us a printed out exam for us to take home. Prof says it's supposed to be closed note but realistically nobody actually listens. I don't know anybody in my class so i won't copy other people's stuff, but I can't help but wonder if they're aware that we'll use our notes and the internet. 

",74,388,349.98722695329127,college
Moving out for college,"Im moving out today, wish me luck!",46,387,284.2000626014394,college
Exam probably graded wrong again...advice on how to get my deserved grade?,"Hi guys, im in an econ class and before the final, i had a 94.23% in the class. I took the final, and felt good about it. It was a 50 multiple choice only exam, i could only count 2 i got definitely got wrong. Well, the exam grades apparently came out about 3 days ago, and i see a big 76.50% right in my face. I go to a 89.3, out of range of even an A-. I was in awe, there was no way i could have got that score! I knew everything! I then realized 76.5% isnt even a possible score on a test out of 50 and i emailed her. Unfortunately its winter vacation so she is understandably not in her office. The thing is this happened the first exam, in my gradebook it said i got a 72, but when i saw my test in person i got a 92, and it was changed. This time, since the semester is over, i dont know who to go to to verify if I got the grade it says I did. I highly doubt i got that low of a score on it, because the exam was quite easy. Do you guys have any similar experiences with this?",48,384,292.17363899032824,college
Let me ask you all what is it that a college student hates the most about University?,I know the thing I hated the most was having to wake up early to go to class that and how I could never find parking sometimes I even had to pay for it even though I had a school permit parking but the areas were all so covered that I had to park in city parking and still pay. So what do you all dislike about college. ,497,390,232.31983111995788,college
My parents have been telling me a bunch of things to discourage me from going to college one being that the information you get in school is 10-20 years old is this true?,"They have been saying this for a while now, and I'm not sure of the validity of the claim, my parents are not known to be good at finding unbiased things about something they already believe is bad.    


They also believe the information is somehow biased. True? Bunk?

&#x200B;

Also does your race determine your success ? Or your families economic status?

&#x200B;

And if it isn't true, is college a good choice? And does going to high school help with college? ~~Been cheaply homeschooled since I was 10, meaning no curriculum just khanacademy and the occasional printed paper.~~",126,378,120.05230797180975,college
Free software you can get with an Edu email,"All you need is an edu email. These work in Australia or America it doesn't matter all you need is an edu email.

You can get multiple things for free including but not limited to

(For Australian students)
You can login to your DET Portal & get Microsoft 365 for free & Windows 10 etc.
You can get adobe creative cloud ( Which includes all of the adobe programs) for free at the DET Portal Login Page

(Everyone)

[Amazon Student](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/student/signup/info)

[Microsoft Imagine](https://imagine.microsoft.com/en-us/catalog)

[Microsoft Azure for Students](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/pricing/member-offers/imagine/)

[GitHub Student Pack](https://education.github.com/pack)

[JetBrains Academic Program](https://www.jetbrains.com/student/)

[Spotify for Students](https://www.spotify.com/uk/student/)

Autodesk (Lots of software) http://students.autodesk.com/
RipTiger (Software): http://www.riptiger.com/edu.html
DiskAid (Software): http://www.digidna.net/diskaid/educational-licenses
Dropbox* (Double Referal Storage): https://www2.dropbox.com/edu
LastPass (Software/Online App - 6-month): https://lastpass.com/edupromo.php
Free Hosting (1-Year): http://www.westhost.com/edu/
Another Free Hosting: http://www.arvixe.com/ci.php/university/schoolselect
Prezi (Online App): http://prezi.com/profile/signup/edu/
ZW3D Student Edition (Software): http://www.zwsoft.com/en/student/
Producteev (Online App): http://edu.producteev.com/
Bitbucket (Online App): http://www.atlassian.com/software/views/bitbucket-academic-license.jsp
Solid Edge Student Edition (Software): https://www.plm.automation.siemens.com/en_us/about_us/goplm/arc/se-academic/solid-edge-student.cfm?
PaperScan Home Edition (Software): Contact them to get free license: http://www.orpalis.com/contact/
Fetch (Mac Software): http://fetchsoftworks.com/fetch/free
[AWS Educate](https://aws.amazon.com/education/awseducate/)
",27,386,781.9699237125506,college
"For those suffering from anxiety/mental health disorders, visit your disability center for assistance.","I never realized that as a student I qualified for the disability center at my school, because of my severe anxiety and depression issues. 

Upon acceptance, your disability center can help you make arrangements with your professors for extra time to do exams, excuse absences and assignments, and even replace a class that may cause extreme anxiety for you. 

Sadly, I didn’t find this out until I was well beyond my college career, and after many failed/low scoring classes.

So if you’re someone who’s struggling with mental health issues, consider taking a visit to your disability center to see if you can qualify to receive help for your classes.

Btw, registering with the disability center at your school is confidential and does not go on your transcript, nor goes on your record. ",48,382,298.7957338977357,college
I hate college & have 100k in debt,"Hi,

I’m a 20 year old Junior at a tech institute studying Management Information Systems. I’m realizing that college is not for me, as I have Borderline Personality Disorder and also a big hatred for my school. My school is responsible for me not receiving a very important internship, and billed me $2700 for trying to move out of campus housing that was growing black mold and has asbestos (no idea what my legal options are there).

I’m currently 100k in debt ( middle class family, bad luck with financial aid), and I want out of my tech school. I’m good at my focus in my major, Database Management Systems, but I don’t know if that’s the path I want to take. I’d be willing to, but I absolutely hate being at my current school and in classroom settings in total. I’ve been able to get 3.0 gpa every semester putting in no effort at all, and I just can’t see myself ever being motivated to keep going to this school and now my grades are beginning to suffer.

I’ve thought about transferring, but my long term girlfriend goes to the same school and we live together, and I’m not really willing to leave her because i’m basically the only person in her life so moving would devestate her. There’s a community college nearby that I haven’t really looked into yet, but I’m not sure what degrees I could get there that could pay off my debt.

I’m basically asking if there’s a way out or if I’m stuck. I’ve never explored options other than university because my parents and teachers pushed me into it and convinced me it was the only way I’d have a happy/successful life (I used to be very trusting/oblivious/naive). I’d be willing to go to a community college, but like I said I don’t know if there’s any jobs that pay high enough to live with my debt. This situation is making my BPD very bad and it’s taking a toll on my mental state. The mental health services at my school are awful (1 appt a month at best) and my insurance puts up a fight for paying for therapists, so it feels like I’m hopeless there as well.

Any input would be appreciated. For reference, most of my debt is from private loans and i’m a first generation student.",180,378,242.91287510143937,college
RA didnt lock door after room inspections. Grounds for complaint?,"I live in an on-campus apartment which is a 4x4. So every roommate has his own bedroom that can be locked, with a shared living space. We locked all our doors before winter break and when we showed up all the bedroom doors were left open. Luckily I'm friends with my roommates so nothing got stolen. But all of us are pretty pissed about it, can we make a formal complaint? ",32,380,270.37859269403197,college
Another student told me to put my computer away in lecture,"A large lecture. I was on my laptop typing a word document for another class and he was sitting behind me and after 30 minutes of typing he leaned forward and told me and the guy next to me “can you guys put that away” I didn’t really see his face and thought it was a TF so I put it away but when I got a glimpse at the end of class I saw it was a student. What would you have done? Does he have any right to tell me what to do? I was sitting in the 2nd from the last row of a 100 person lecture hall and other people further away from him were on phones and computers. I would understand if I was being loud, distracting him by playing games or watching sports, but I was typing a word document and the guy next to me looked like he was coding. ",112,377,542.2084306569949,college
For those of you wondering what college is like.,,30,377,1771.283129731069,college
Really bad homesickness,"I’ve been at college for about a month, objectively I’ve been doing really well, I have a group of people who I think I like, a few friends outside of them, my classes are interesting, my professors are nice, I’m usually busy doing things with my friends. But I cannot shake this homesickness. It’s constant and only really goes away at night for some reason. It manifests in weird ways too, I’ll stress over having friends, or having a relationship (something I guess I unrealistically expected would happen right away), or not going out at night and since I’m going to NYU people go out all the time and there’s so many things to do that I always feel I’m not doing enough. It’s really bad and what almost makes it worse is I’m so close to home, only an hour away and the urge to go home is strong but I know it will make it worse. I don’t know if I’m looking for advice or just people to commiserate with me. Anything helps I guess... thanks",40,379,24.91074547180975,college
I'm at home and I MISS my dorm. What's gotten into me??,"Like... shouldn't I enjoy coming home? But I don't other than seeing my family for a bit and that's it. I've only lived in the dorms for three days but I guess I just got comfortable? It feels like home now. I guess it just feels like a place of my own, unlike at my parents' house. I used to always love being home, and hated going out, so it's weird that I'm adjusting so easily and even ENJOYING the transition from my childhood home to dorms. I'm looking forward to tomorrow when I get to go back... Does anyone feel similarly?",29,377,256.93222695329126,college
"Dropped out twice, kept hiding it, now I'm on my last rope.","Hello guys,

the first semester I went to university I did pretty well, aced my exams, but for the life of me couldn't manage to write essays. My work ethic is shit and I procrastinated to the point of no return. Didn't habe any friends due to social shame, isolated myself from the world. My parents are the extremely strict academic type-parents so I didn't dare tell them anything about how I was struggling with uni. Meanwhile I had developed severe depression and went undiagnosed for 2-3 semesters, tried to take my life once but through some miracle I survived.

After 4 semesters of hiding, I finally confessed to my parents and they made me feel like I was the dirtiest piece of trash alive. I was extremely scared, ashamed, I just broke down mentally but had no other choice than to switch to anither university. 

Here, I had the same problems, still going with my depression and flunked out in my 2nd semester, because I felt so hollow that I couldn't get to studying and just indulged in video games. I kept this fact hidden and now I'm nearing my 4th semester, when I'm actually unable to keep studying my major. I can't switch it anymore either. I have no one to help me and my parents, who take full financial responsibility over my studies, are probably going to have a heart attack (I'm not joking) and feel like I'm out to make their life miserable, which I definitely am. I'm lost and scared.

I tried applying to another university now, but I spent the last 4 years of my life achieving nothing. My lifeline is going, I'm so filled with dread, guilt, shame, anger, frustration, self-hatred day in day out... I don't know where to go. Can anyone help? What should I do? I'm going to talk to a therapist but they take months before I can get an appointment and they're not going to help my situation short-term.",105,376,98.55816445329123,college
Didn’t make a single friend in college and had no social life. Am I screwed now?,"Due to severe social anxiety issues I never made a single close friend in college or went to any social events in college (literally no parties or anything). Then I had a severe mental breakdown last year which transformed me in a way and now I find myself wanting to experience those things, but I’ve already graduated and have no friends practically to do those things with. I’ve tried plenty of friend making apps and for a while we keep in contact, but when I suggest ideas for outings everyone is too busy since they have jobs and also don’t prioritize friends the way I am. Am I pretty screwed out of having any life in my 20s?",62,377,130.26904408292086,college
How do I deal with my envy of the “party life?”,"So I’m a freshman and my year’s going pretty well so far, but I’m kind of wondering if I’m following the right path.

I look around at the fraternities and sororities and I see others partying every weekend. There’s also the big football game day where everyone is a fan. I’m torn: on one hand, I know that I dislike just about everything about these things. On the other hand, it seems like everyone else is having more fun than me.

As a bit of background, I’m a kind of introverted person, and have usually made only a few close friends. In high school and now, I hold myself to a pretty strict focus on schoolwork and prefer organized activities to just like “hanging out.” I have never drank or done drugs, and have no desire to do so. I’m not really a spectator sports fan and I also (maybe critically) don’t use Snapchat. Like messaging is fine, but I think snap streaks are stupid, although everyone else seems to network with it.

So basically, I have good reasons to not get involved with partying or anything like that, but I can’t help but feel a little jealous of everyone else who seems to be having more fun. I talk to other kids who seem pretty chill, and hearing them talk about partying and drinking is intriguing to me because it’s such a foreign concept that I’ve never even considered. I still have no desire to drink, Snapchat, “get wasted,” or whatever, but most of the kids my age seem to connect with each other at parties and stuff where that happens.

Bluntly, I’m interested in social action besides the nerds: I’m throughly a nerd and there’s nothing wrong with that, but I’d like to connect with other people too and try different things without getting involved with stupid or illegal activities. I know FOMO but like I do feel like that sometimes. Can anyone else give me any advice? Suggestions? Relatable issue? ",107,379,334.3174468606986,college
Is it a long way away? Yes. But taking 15-18 credits each semester in a major I love will surely pay off,,34,375,568.1179445458838,college
I just got fired form my summer job for forging a reference. Please don't be stupid like me.,"So in a week I thought that I was going to go work as a TA for six weeks at a summer camp for gifted students called CTY which some of you may have heard of.  Unfortunately, I got an email this morning saying there was an ""issue"" with one of my references (which were submitted months ago).  Five months ago, I was asked to submit five references for this summer job.  Four I submitted honestly, but one I did myself since my last reference wasn't getting back to me.  I just got an email about half an hour ago saying I got fired.  Don't be stupid like me.  I literally don't know what to do right now besides telling everyone else not to be a fucking dumbass like me.",61,375,127.2019723236616,college
How to cope with a terribly boring internship?,"Today marks my 5th day in my new internship... so far the little work I have been given is meaningless and boring and it already feels like this is a waste of my time. During the interview, the manager explained some of the many tasks I was supposed to be responsible for but so far they've yet to be seen. I try to ask for more work, but my manager is often in meetings or forgets about me. I feel like there is something so much better I could be doing with my time, but it is definitely too late to find a new internship or even another job worth doing. Every day I leave work in this weird funk because I'm so bored throughout the day. If this is any taste of what post-college life is like, then I need to run away.",76,373,132.42712278662458,college
"Professor is allowing a cheat sheet, I have to put 7 pages of notes onto one paper.",,43,374,752.8908843606987,college
"Write a thank you note to your custodians, they deserve the recognition and would be gracious knowing someone appreciated their relentless work","Most students turn their head away from custodians, though I believe it’s really important to value them just as any other faculty or staff member—they are part of the family that makes your campus/building thrive each and every day. The recognition custodians receive is little to none, students say they appreciate their service, but why don’t you take that a step further and write something meaningful to them?

Talk to someone in charge of communications, they will be able to get the names of each custodian member. While you may not want to address every single custodian on campus, get a list of those who work within your major’s building or a building you spend the most time in.

Not only would the custodians appreciate the note, they would appreciate the extra time you took to personally thank them for their service. ",29,373,539.4394491755135,college
New report finds 70% of colleges are unaffordable for middle class Americans,,34,372,937.0713704718097,college
Is college actually 10x harder than high school?,"I'm starting Comp Eng this September, and people say that it's harder to stay in university than it is to get in, and it's 10x harder than hs and what not. I know university will be harder, but is the change that drastic? This is coming from someone who has a strong work ethic, because obviously if you just got by in hs, you're going to fail in uni. But what about someone who actually puts effort in?",147,375,200.03549084218014,college
Dropping out of Top 20 College,"Last year, I was a senior and I committed to a top 20 school. I was near the top of my class and many teachers praised me and said I would do amazing things in the future. At this university, I was chosen to do a selective program the summer before my freshman year. I quickly realized that I really did not like the school; I was miserable there and incredibly homesick. I made lots of friends and learned a lot through this program, but I found myself dreading the upcoming school year. Right before I was supposed to move-in, I talked with my parents and told them I wanted to go somewhere else for school. They were understanding and helped me get enrolled at my local community college. Right now, my grades are stellar and I take primarily honors courses. However, I can't help but feel like a failure. All my friends, family, and teachers were expecting me to go to this prestigious school and accomplish so many things yet I find myself wallowing around at home. I haven't made any friends at school or joined any clubs. Along with this, all my closest friends from high school currently attend top 20 schools and I just feel so incompetent in comparison. I am no longer interested in going to some elite school after my experience with this program, so I am planning on just transferring to my state school. Could anyone give me any advice? Or has anyone else gone through a situation similar to this? I am not sure how to stop feeling so ashamed about my decision.",94,371,348.0002825088468,college
Is it the norm in college to be alone for majority of the day?,"At least for weekdays. As I observe, I notice that most people are doing their own thing, going to classes, studying alone in library, and walking to classes with earbuds on. Considering everyone has different schedules, I'm wondering if this is the norm? 
I'm a freshman and before college, I've always had the idea that college is a lot of fun, but it kinda just surprises me seeing how often people are alone. It's starting to have a negative effect on me since I feel very lonely most of the time. I've noticed that after my classes, and studying, the day has flown by and I've barely talked with anyone. I'd imagine this would be even more true in further years when workload piles up. Thoughts and insights? ",91,371,400.0260232495876,college
"Trump budget plan eliminates nearly $750,000,000 in federal student aid - completely eliminating SEOG and dramatically cutting work study.",,156,371,945.4780834347728,college
Is anyone else just jaded and really disappointed with college so far?,"Why and why not? I'm a junior and I'm trying to gain some energy/motivation to save this semester. I think my school is just a bad fit for me. I felt like doing well for myself in the 18 years prior to college was for nought. I feel like a half-dead soul dragging myself to classes. College wasn't as fun as I thought it would be. 4 years of my life will be gone.  I don't even know how to determine if I had grown as a person in the past 2-and-a-half years. I think I probably became slightly more comfortable in my own skin and less socially awkward, but that isn't much is it? One of my biggest fears is turning into one of those ""bright burnout"" people. I'm rambling and I apologize in advance if this post isn't appropriate.",53,371,341.7549468606986,college
What’s your major?,"I’m very surprised at the diversity! And the lack of STEM majors. I’ve never heard of several of your majors before!

I’m a Chemistry major with an Environmental Science minor!",936,371,226.18333806440234,college
watched porn on my colleges public wifi?,will I be penalized? I read the technology policies and it said porn wasn't allowed.,81,367,1568.4486621384765,college
My transcript this semester is trying to shame me for my grades.,,22,369,1610.3240556569947,college
Anyone else struggling with summer time blues?,"Taking the summer off and just working a bull-shit contact center job full time to keep myself busy and make a little extra money for the 18-19 school year. Anyone else get bored, tired and a little depressed when taking a summer off? How do you make the most of it?",63,363,458.3179445458838,college
Did anyone else completely screw up their sleep schedule over break?,"It started out as just staying up to 1-2am on a daily basis until it slowly leaked to 3am.. then 4am... and now even 6-7am. I hate myself for allowing this and now I sleep until 3 or 4pm. Wish me luck as I try and reverse this somehow..

I do have a job, but its partly remote work and when I am on site its during evenings, and one day a week at 7:30am.",48,369,1012.959379731069,college
How well does your university respond to ice/snow hazards on campus? (UW student death),"For those who may not have the sad news, a fellow student passed away yesterday as a result of slipping and falling on the way to class. 

Story here: https://www.kiro7.com/news/local/uw-student-dies-after-slipping-and-falling-on-campus/915789730

I’m curious of the efforts that other school place on clearing all ice on major walkways throughout campus. This story is extremely saddening to think about, and it could have happened to anyone. The fact that school resumed to normal operations after two snow days but there was still a lot of thick ice on paths comes across as negligent and I’m curious if this is common at other schools. 

Pictures can be found on replies the UW presidents’ twitter: 
https://mobile.twitter.com/amcauce/status/1093321082382086144",127,364,252.10985426810606,college
Anyone feel like they way they teach math in college is worse than high school?,"At least for my college, homework is done digitally on a website that tells you if you’re right or wrong. It doesn’t tell you where you’re wrong just that you’re wrong so you have no idea what you did wrong which isn’t helpful. And sometimes a piece might need multiple answers and sometimes it just says you’re wrong even if only one of the three parts is wrong so you start second guessing your right answers unknowingly. It’s awful and doesn’t help you improve since you don’t know what you did wrong. Thoughts?",58,370,257.21617371255047,college
Has anyone's family tried to make them feel bad for going to college?,"I was at a family event on the 4th visiting my dad's side of the family for the first time since I started university ( which was about a year ago) and it seemed like a few people in my family were a bit passive-aggressive that I am going to school. My Aunt was by far the worst offender she kept talking about how poor they are and tried to make me feel guilty for going to school because she couldn't. My Aunt also kept trying to play it off to her kids that I was rich because I am in school when the reality is I am paying for it all of my own. My cousin and her boyfriend (who didn't finish high school) told me that I am wasting my life with school and that a ""real man"" gets his hands dirty at work. My uncle chimed in to tell me that university is for brainwashing people into liberals who hate guns. Other than that my dad and grandmother were petty happy about school. So does anyone else have any crazy family stories about school? If not maybe this one will at least make you laugh a little!",111,365,467.26390519403196,college
When you did all the assignments for no reason.,,41,360,1046.2569954718097,college
PSA: The FAFSA for the 2018-2019 school year opens October 1! Post all FAFSA questions here!,"The FAFSA for the 2018-2019 school year opened on October 1, 2017. If you plan to attend college during the 2018-2019 school year, you should submit a FAFSA if you are [eligible](https://fafsa.ed.gov/help/fftoc03a.htm) to do so.

First time? Here's what you need to do:

1. Create an [FSA ID](https://fsaid.ed.gov/npas/index.htm). If you are a dependent student, one of your parents will need to make one as well. This is your legal, electronic signature. You cannot submit the FAFSA without one. If mom/dad has already created an FSA ID (for older siblings), they must use that one.

2. Gather all necessary documents, including bank statements, 2016 tax information, any records of untaxed income, etc.

3. Start the [FAFSA](https://fafsa.gov/)!
If you or your parent are given the option to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool, use it! It will drag tax information from the IRS straight to the FAFSA and save you a lot of time.

Post your questions about the FAFSA only on this thread, so as to avoid clogging the sub with posts. I work in financial aid and I will be happy to help.

**Please reference [last year's thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/54mjwp/psa_the_fafsa_for_the_20172018_school_year_opens/) before posting-- your question may have been addressed there.**",638,364,776.0433496384763,college
Is it appropriate to ask a professor why I got a B instead of an A?,"Basically, my religion professor doesn’t give out grades to anyone, and when asked about my grade on the essay exams he kept saying he’ll let me know once he gets thru them, which never happened. I had this professor last year and got an A in his philosophy course, and I’m wondering what was different this year. Should I email him regarding my final grade?",37,360,154.9038588977357,college
What do you guys do to keep motivated in your studies?,,117,360,247.36115056440232,college
Who else is getting excited for the new school year?,,138,357,463.4417871384764,college
How can I make As in my classes?,"I am a college student, who takes mostly science classes. I plan on pursuing a career in optometry. I keep making Bs, and it is really frustrating. Any tips for being above average?",96,361,67.95030565699494,college
"College student leaders, how do you make an event a success?",,49,362,87.67637047180975,college
The Issue with Extra Curricular Leadership Positions,"I go to a very competitive school and one major concern on everyone’s mind is the need to get an extracurricular leadership position. Observing my peers, I noticed something that resulted from this environment: leadership cannibalization.

What exactly is this? Assume you’re a club leader interviewing people for a position. You receive a bunch of resumes and notice a candidate who is already involved in multiple clubs with leadership experience. You’re impressed and are highly considering offering the position to this student.

You go on and conduct interviews. With no surprise, this candidate of interest performs exceptionally well. It’s a tough call between her and a few other students, so you pick her based on how impressive her resume is. Given her involvement, she surely will be successful taking on the position, right? Wrong!

You offer the candidate the role and she accepts. As time goes on, you notice her performance is lacking. This student is always busy; sometimes she can’t always attend meetings due to other events or whatever the case may be. Although this student is bright, she can’t fully dive into the position and contribute as much as anticipated due to her other extracurriculars digging into her schedule. This is leadership cannibalization.

The issue at hand is that (at least at my school) there is a huge gap between students who are highly and little involved with leadership opportunities. The ones who are highly involved take control of many available opportunities which results in the gap and degraded performance. Students aren’t concerned with what they can achieve with one position but how many positions they can put on a piece of paper. This mentality is wrong!

In the end, I wanted to share this idea and see if anyone here agrees. I think people involved on campus should be highly conscious of this and focus more on developing meaningful experiences rather than racking up positions like its a trophy collection. There is only so much you can do with only 24 hours a day.

tldr: There is a gap between students highly and little involved with campus leadership opportunities. Students with leadership roles are far more likely to acquire more. This drives the gap and also results in poor performance since such students have to handle very demanding schedules.",31,357,305.3855950088468,college
Dealing with arrogant people in a class,"Day 1 of Calculus 1 class. A few of us students are gathered around, talking about their previous experience in calculus. This kid walks into the room, and announces ""I got a 5 on the AP calculus BC exam. *I'm* only here for an easy A"". then proceeds to brag about how he got an A in honors physics in high school. 

Oh boy.

I sit next to this kid, because we both sit in the front row. He is *so* annoying. Every class, he's either:

\-  bragging about how easy he finds calculus (Prof: ""Ok this can be a tricky concept....."" Kid: ""I get it!! I think it's easy!!"")

\-making comments about how much he knows, etc. ("" I did something like this in honors physics!!"")

\- asking tangentially related questions to the syllabus

\- sucking up to the professor. Like, he told the professor, ""I'm going to change my major and become a math professor because you've inspired me so much"" then asked if he could help the professor grade papers.

\- brags about how little sleep he gets and how hard his workload is. He says he's taking 7 classes this semester, which I *know* is complete bullshit because the engineering department wouldn't let you take 7 classes. 

  
Just.....how do I deal with him for the next month? I literally want to roll my eyes or tell him how arrogant he's being every time I see him. ",95,357,338.337655194032,college
College Dorm Room (My side of the room!),,34,356,770.9598774162541,college
Someone was mad they didn't get the grade they wanted...,,106,359,351.9296575088468,college
What luxuries of home do you miss at school?,"My list, in no particular order:

1. Good food/cooking. (The dining hall here is terrible, and there is no kitchen in my dorm complex)
2.  Driving. (I don't have my car on campus)
3. Good, private, laundry machines.
4. My own bathroom.
5. My bed.
6. A living room with chairs, a couch, and TV.
7. Peace and quiet.

While I miss all of those things, and my family even more, I'm so glad to be at college and would never trade it away.",140,358,397.04104639773567,college
"Attending Tel Aviv university. Cat policy allows them to freely roam anywhere, Is this also a thing at your place?",,51,363,853.6551436199578,college
"Current college students, if someone were to send you a care package for finals week, what items would you love to receive?","My niece is finishing up here freshman year as a nursing student and I want to send her the ultimate care package for her finals this year. 

Edit: wow, thank you guys so much for all the suggestions! I’m really excited to put this all together for her :)

As a side note, I’m only six years older than my niece so I haven’t been out of college that long myself, but wow I do not remember Adderall being such a thing in college! I actually take stimulants for ADD on a daily basis and for me, they just make me feel normal. Low key jealous of everyone who can use them to hyper-focus! ",127,356,549.2433264903283,college
"Part of me is excited that winter break is almost here...the other part of me is screaming ""OH MY GOD FINALS. NO. NO. NO.""",,20,354,699.7609306569949,college
Anyone else procrastinating out there?,Just sitting alone in my room doing homework late because the assignment's due tomorrow. Any one else feeling their lonely shame or is it just me. I'll be on for a while.,111,352,247.78478482366162,college
Advice on how to wake up a super heavy sleeper?,"So I am an RA this year and have been trying to solve an issue with a resident who cannot wake up to his alarm. His alarm is insanely loud, it can be heard through the whole (small) dorm and outside. It wakes everyone else up but not him. He has even had this thing go off for 3 straight hours before. I have banged and knocked on the door to wake him with no luck, and having only pissed everyone off more due to the additional noise. The only thing that has worked is me keying into the room to wake him up myself, but I am not being his personal alarm clock, that isn't my job.

Does anyone have any waking up systems that aren't just louder/more noises? The noises don't awake him, but they bother every other person in the dorm. I am looking into [this](https://www.amazon.com/Sonic-Alert-SBB500SS-Extra-Loud-Flashing/dp/B000OOWZUK/ref=pd_lpo_vtph_23_bs_t_1?_encoding=UTF8&psc=1&refRID=BXFN5ACS0YNX1HYD8NRM&dpID=41mva7vs80L&preST=_SX300_QL70_&dpSrc=detail) as a solution. Has anyone used it?


EDIT: After recommendations of the vibrating alarms I spoke with disability services who will be getting him one free of charge. Thank you all for your help!",51,357,399.45124315699496,college
"Have you ever spent hours on an assignment and went for extra sessions with the professor only to end up having a lesser grade than someone who barely did the ""extreme"" hard work like you?","This is absolutely unfair. I don't even... what?



Edit: just so everyone knows, he’s a friend. He too was a bit on the downside when I told him about my grade. Also, he was in a different university before (did not complete it) coming to the one he is in now. I don’t mean to be negative, this was just to find people who went through the same experience as I did.
And judging from the comments, some of you have, but have taken it positively. Thanks!",139,351,409.36054871255044,college
GUYS I GOT MY FIRST 4.0 EVER,"I got my 4.0 this summer semester, and even though it's just summer semester I still broke my 4.0 cherry. I had to share this with you guys, you guys support me on here and I wanted to thank all of you for the advice and tips you have given me :) ",28,352,844.1717061199579,college
San Francisco will be first in nation to make city college free,,66,353,982.1502246384764,college
Does anyone else have to deal with this?,"My roommate literally sleeps in until about 2 pm everyday. All my classes start and end literally before she even opens her eyes. Does anyone else have to deal with tip-toeing around? It’s annoying. 


Edit: Ok let me add some stuff since you all think she is depressed. She isn't. We're pretty good friends, we get along really well and we talk about pretty much everything. This is literally the only problem I have with her. She just likes to go out Wednesday-Sunday and stay out until 3 or 4 am. She usually doesn't go to sleep until 3-5am on even other days. I think it's just a habit, not a disorder and not depression. 


Edit 2: Let me clarify MORE things since this is getting more traffic than I thought it would... We both have separate rooms, we share a suite (living room, kitchenette, bathroom). Her room is right by the bathroom and My room is by the kitchenette. Our rooms are right next to each other. Here is the layout of our room https://imgur.com/wzEDjML ",139,352,311.21329176810605,college
Remember to do your research when buying textbooks!!!,"Just a quick reminder that THRIFTBOOKS EXISTS and it can be a great place to find textbooks much cheaper than your university's bookstore/Chegg. I just found literally every single book I need for this semester on there for less than half the price of renting on Chegg, let alone buying from the university bookstore. Granted, you should check that you're buying the right edition (I had to spend like 50 cents extra to get the translation of the Illiad required for my class) but it's still an amazing money saving tool and I was shocked at the amount of textbooks they carry",39,347,88.8119260273653,college
Anyone else NOT excited to go back?,I like hanging with friends but I freaking hate all the stress and loneliness college brings! I like just hanging out with my family haha,73,351,652.6988820458838,college
Study finds that students using electronic devices in class perform worse on exams,,67,347,445.07310658292084,college
Why is everyone in college doing this?!,So I’ve noticed that almost everyone I hang out with Juuls (vapes). Two years ago this wasn’t very prevalent in college. I just want to know why people start smoking juul and what do the smokers get out of smoking it? ,133,341,412.38745843477267,college
Is complimenting clothing weird?,"I was in the halls the other day and I noticed a really nice XXXTentacion sweater on a woman, which was quite rare, and costly. 
Being a fan of X, i decides to go out of my comfort zone and say how nice it is.

As I walked by, I said ""that's a dope sweater!"" Being the awkward individual I am.

The remark I got back was simply a look of distress and she just kind of started at the ground and didn't respond.

Was this a weird thing to do or was my remark not appropriate?!",208,341,198.20859269403198,college
Must have apps for college?,"Any suggestions for apps that help with note taking, writing papers, math, and organization? ",94,339,419.210629731069,college
How can I socialize without drinking?,"I've been in college for a year now, and somehow, every social activity seems to involve drinking. Even during chill hangout sessions with my friends, watching some dumb movie, someone ends up pulling out the liquor. It's not that I judge people who drink (lord knows I used to have my fun), but early freshman year I started medication that makes it so I can't have alcohol. I don't smoke, either.

I get that for a lot of people college is the first time they get to let loose, and I don't want to prevent my friends from being able to do that. It's just that I'm getting tired of being the only sober one in the room. The more I'm around alcohol, the more I think I should just have one drink, to be a part of it all, but I know that's the wrong choice. I thought we were having plenty of fun when our hangouts didn't involve drinking, but now I'm worried that if I ask for us to have a few more sober occasions, I'll be a total buzzkill. 

I worry it's ruining my chances with new friends, too. I've just joined a program at school, and I really want to get to know everyone, but all of the group hangout sessions have been about partying and going to local bars. I couldn't even go if I wanted to, since I don't have a fake.

Has anyone else experienced something similar, where they can't/don't drink? Any advice on what I can do?",78,341,41.437446860698635,college
What is the most awkward moment you've had on campus?,,179,338,6.5196112125504895,college
"Colleges delay tuition, offer aid as shutdown hits students",,19,336,265.2504908421801,college
Midtermitis. It's a thing.,,15,339,588.2127825088468,college
What's something that every freshman should experience during their first year?,,242,343,824.3938588977356,college
What are the essential skills for U.S. college students?,"I'm talking about skills similar to critical reading, diversity awareness which I can learn from a book, not those general stuff like time management, money, stress, etc. all over the internet (don't get me wrong, I know these are important skills, maybe, meh... I want something more ""tangible"" to entertain myself for the rest of senior year in high school).",135,336,227.55207649032826,college
I'm not a partier and people dont understand..,"First week on campus and already got invited to a big party, I'm 18 and fucking hate it, I dont like feeling that I dont have control of my actions and people dont understand it, all my friends are at a party right now and I feel left out, but also feel like I'm making a good decision. Not rly sure what to do..",99,342,60.7306760273653,college
Im not sure if I’m getting cold feet or if I actually don’t want to go to college,"My whole life I’ve been looking forward to college. As a little kid, I would dream about it and look forward to it. This entire year I have been looking forward to it and planning. I was so happy when I was accepted into my university. Going to college was never pushed by my parents, I’ll be the first of my siblings to graduate, let alone go to college. That being said, this was always my choice. 

But now, I’m not sure if I want to go. I’m stressed about the money, so I’m not sure if that’s causing it. I’ve always wanted to travel the world and want to teach English abroad, so I don’t know if that interest is making me question my choices. Or maybe I’m just getting cold feet and this will pass. I’m supposed to move in next month and I’ve already invested a lot of money into this. I’m just worried that I’ll invest more and end up not wanting it. 

Worst comes to worst, it’s only 4 years and a bachelors degree always opens doors. I’m really just not sure what to do. Will this feeling pass? Will I be miserable? If I am, is it best to just deal with it? Has this happened to anyone else?

Edit: I want to be a teacher, I’m getting a music Ed degree. I’ve known this is what I’ve wanted to do since middle school. It’s a sudden change right now",44,336,83.2251899162542,college
Were my questions really that stupid?,"Edit 1: I want to thank everyone for their input on both sides of this issue. I agree that some of the fault is mine. I do not know if English is not the professors original language. Also this is an online class and I live somewhere else so office hours are a no go. I did not realize perplexed can be negative so I also learned something. I honestly used perplexed a lot and have never been told that.

Edit 2: I feel as i have gotten enough advice so I will stop responding to individual comments. I agree my emails could have been interpreted as rude so I sent an apology to the professor that if my words sounded rude or inflexible that was not my intention. She seemed to respond positively to this. I will be making a YouTube video over my project. I am not going to try to get more information on the wiki as I feel that my first approach failed. I will not be looking at further comments but thank you everyone the insight to my own faults was extremely useful.

Final Edit: I am deleting the specifics of the thread as they can be easily tied back to IRL me. 

TLDR; My professor replied in a way to my questions that I perceived as rude. Based on replies below, both me and my professor may have been misinterpreting each others emails which led to a large miscommunication. I feel like others can learn from the comments that written emails can be read a lot of different ways and the importance of being clear and concise in the first email.",60,336,176.38530565699494,college
People with social anxiety: how do you deal with presentations?,"So far ive done a few presentations in my college life.


 1. was for my Spanish class. For both Spanish 1 and 2. The teacher allowed us to Literally just read from the slides since she knew that most people weren't good at talking Spanish. So thats how I managed to do it even though I'm fluent in Spanish.

2. For a computee science class. Long story short, it was a train wreak. i stuttered and it was awful and cringy. I blame myself for not being prepared. 

3. Supposubly it was for a physics class but I chose not to do it and got a 0. Although i still passed with a low 70 though since it was like 20% so its all good.

4. Speech class. I enrolled I this class twice and twice I dropped it because I just can't deal with the pressure of speaking in class. I managed to 'survive' the first couple of weeks in this class but stopped attending since just sitting in the lecture room, id start to feel incredibly nervous, shaky and uneasy.

5. I'm currently  taking a class that requires me to do a presentation at the end of the semester. Obviously I'm not sure if ill be able to pass this one since its worth 30% of my overall grade. 

Overrall, ive always been quiet and shy. I dont have friends at college. At first I hated that but I learned to be ok with it and it doesn't bother me no more. The only friends I have are my old high school friends but I rarely see them since they don't go to college.I tried following the classic 'join a club' advice and I did do it. It always emds up the same. Everyone is has their groups of friends. Even if I do try to interact with them, they usually briefly reply but them focus on what their group is doing. I did briefly volunteer but the same thing would happen.

My grades are bad because I would rather just use Google to get answers to questions rather than go to office hours. I have no internships but tried to go to career fairs. Most of the time it ends up the same. I come of as awkward and weird. 

Part of me feels like ill never get my degree because I just can't deal with speaking in class or people in general and I've considered dropping completely. I realize that as I advance further in my degree (Computer science), I'm required to do more presentations. 

So I'm curious how y'all introverts/socially anxious/awkward people managed to survive this?

Thanks.",120,334,242.31237741625418,college
Am I missing out by not going to parties?,"I'm a goody two shoes kid, not because of background or religious reasons. I just don't really see the appeal in alcohol, drugs, smoking, weed, etc. And by extension I don't really go to parties because I don't hang around people who are into that stuff, so I never get invited.

Am I missing out on a lot by not going to parties? I would rather spend an evening with a few friends and either some good korean bbq or a home cooked meal. But in the back of my head I feel like I'm screwing myself over when it comes to making lifelong friends or opportunities for a happier time in college/romantic partners. Well the latter doesn't apply too much because I go to a polytech... 70/30.

And yes I know I can be the designated driver. But overall I don't really feel comfortable hanging around people who like to do weed and stuff. I'm not elitist about it, my freshman year roommate enjoyed a little beer or sometimes vodka before bed. But a noisy and rowdy environment like parties are a bit too much for me. Still though, should I bite the bullet and go to parties?",114,331,270.8898195458838,college
My school just banned porn,Alright you can probably tell by the title what this is about. Has anyone else’s campus done this? Was it reversed? Ways around this? It’s really confusing as to why my campus banned porn under the pretext of “to free up academic resources” but didn’t ban other entertainment services? ,89,335,303.4325741755135,college
How do you stay in healthy in college?,"I’m going to be a junior in the fall, and I am truly interested in what different people do to stay healthy while in college. Like sports, extracurriculars, social life, or just hobbies and interests you do that make you feel better after a stressful day or week of classes!",102,332,80.62221537921717,college
Medical school seems so out of reach and its discouraging,"Lately I've been super discouraged by my grades despite my effort that I keep feeling like my dream of becoming a doctor is nothing but a dream. One of the older cadets in my rotc detachment got accepted into dental school and got the air force to pay for it with his 3.9 and seeing that makes me feel super inadequate. 
I ended off my first semester with a 3.1, I'm doing better in my classes this semester but I still feel like my gpa with never be good enough to both gain acceptance to medical school and get the air force rotc scholarship for it. Not matter how much I study I still feel like it will never get better.

Any advice on how to get over this feeling?",51,334,209.397504731069,college
The school I was set to transfer to this fall canceled my offer of admission,"As mentioned in the title, I was finally going to transfer to a four year this fall after spending 3 years at a CC in California. If you guys aren't familiar with how CC to four year transfer works, you need to have completed a minimum of 60 IGETC units to be able to transfer.

Spring 2019 was supposed to be my last semester, however something really bad happened to me during the last two weeks of classes. I was sent to the ER with really bad pains in my feet and hands, turns out I was diagnosed with a highly contagious disease and prevented me from going anywhere. Because of this I reached out to all my professors right away to make arrangements on what I could do in regards to me being unable to set foot on campus to take my finals. Luckily I was was able to work something out with 2 out of 3 of my professors and passed both of those. However, my bio professor never got back to me, even after countless emails and phone calls to his office. Long story short: he gave me an F and I was scared shitless so I reached out to my new college ASAP.

&#x200B;

I informed them about the whole situation and asked what I needed to do so that my admission offer would stay in tact. The told me to contact them right away with unofficial transcripts and a letter of explanation. I explained the whole situation with the medical problem and unresponsive professor. Even after all that they said because of the missing credits from the bio class, they have to cancel my offer of admission. Ever since then I've honestly been really down and can feel my depression coming back despite my efforts of staying positive.

&#x200B;

So I reached out to the dean of natural sciences at my CC and basically snitched on my professor for not responding to students and for giving me an inaccurate grade because of my medical situation. An administrative assistant got back to me and informed me that because of the 4th of July they won't get back to me until Monday but she told me that she informed the dean right away to get a hold of this professor to see if they could change the status of the class to incomplete or get a grade change for me.

&#x200B;

Now my question is, has this happened to anyone before? If so what happened in your situation? If I got a grade change and contacted the university, could they reinstate my offer of admission? Because I honestly don't want to wait another year and reapply to universities all over again. As a first-gen, my family is all really psyched for me to be finally going to a university and so am I. But if I don't end up going to university this fall, I'll have to wait a whole year and I really don't want to waste anymore time. Please offer my any advice, because I'm deadass terrified.

&#x200B;

Edit: Professor never responded, dean & department sided with him. I am now waiting a whole year to be able to transfer, thanks to this stupid professor. I am also forced to retake Bio in the fall because no grade change. Thanks for everyone who responded though, I tried everything you guys told me to!",21,330,104.0471459347727,college
I can’t tell if I chose the wrong school,I just finished my first freshman semester at college . I chose a school very close to home but I’m living in the dorm. I’m a music performance major. All through the college process I KNEW I wasn’t going to attend this university but 2 weeks before decision day they offered me a spot in a prestigious music program at their school along with a decent scholarship so I eventually caved and went to this school. I guess the people in the music school are OK (I’m not SUPER SUPER close with anyone but I have a couple of decent friends) but I feel like I don’t fit in with the university as a whole. I’m the quiet nerdy type and the majority of this school just wants to hookup and party All the time. I don’t fit in at all. Most people I know are saying things like “wow I CANT WAIT to get back to school and see all my friends” and “I love break but am SO EXCITED to go back go university”..and I’m over here just dreading going back. I had issues with depression and anxiety (and BAD procrastination) last semester so I can’t tell if I’m unhappy about going back do to my own issues or if I truly truly don’t belong at this school. I feel trapped and lost right now .. I’m telling myself that if I’m still unhappy these first few weeks I’m going to start applications in February to transfer for sophomore year. Does anyone have advice ?,38,335,290.3948079718097,college
International MIT students unable to return to the country following Trump's Muslim ban.,,71,335,992.1199237125505,college
Dreading going back to school after winter break,I’ve had 3 and a half weeks for break and I’m really dreading going back to school and not being home. Is this normal to feel? I go to school around a lot of cool stuff whereas in my hometown there’s nothing to do. I’m really dreading classes and even the thought of seeing the campus is making me really sad and anxious.,37,338,278.636555656995,college
"I got academically dismissed and now I don’t know what path to take,","so you know how you can either be either a master at one thing OR good enough at a lot of things?

i’m [22F] the second one. i used to love that about myself because i could try so many things but now its kind of fucking me over. 

my parents were always very strict and on top of me about my grades. they paid for me to go to college a couple years, and i didn’t do so well. 

i was academically dismissed and basically wasted 2 years of college. my parents are still so disappointed in me. 

a big reason i failed was because i kept changing majors and didn’t know what the hell i wanted to do. i still don’t know what i want to do.

i have spent all the time since then taking courses at a community college and bartending. 

i know the importance of getting a degree but i just feel like i’m not getting the hang of college and i never will. but i don’t want to disappoint my parents or myself. 

also, if i get back into the university i would have to pay loans and i don’t know if its even worth it anymore. 

here are the 4 career paths that i would be okay with. 

1. interior designer: i absolutely love and enjoy interior design, but its a very risky path to take. 
2. stand up comedian: my dream job since day 1, but not very realistic.
3. social psychologist: i am super interested in how/why people interact with each other. but i feel like i would never get a job. 
4. computer scientist: my parents dream job for me, which is understandable because of the salary. i am really good in all math courses but i don’t think i would enjoy coding for the rest of my life. 

what would you do if you were me? should i listen to my parents or should i follow a passion instead, even if its a risk?",65,327,172.4841598236616,college
"What makes you happy, makes you feel good, and gives you the push you need to get through college while you're working on it?",,145,328,332.394067231069,college
Vaping in Lectures :(,"Some guy was sitting directly in front of me today, while the professor lectured, with both earbuds in, but who cares. However, he was additionally *vaping* in class and blowing huge billows of smoke right back at me. The experience left me frustrated and disgusted. 
How would you have dealt with this? Honestly, I don't mind if people multi-task or watch TV during lectures, but vaping just seems to be going too far.  ",85,333,402.1536852866245,college
Girlfriends professor asking to stay 45 minutes late for class.,My girlfriend went back to college this week for her second degree.  This is a biology class that meets twice a week 5:30-10:15pm.  She already has to get up at 6pm to be at work at 7:30.  The instructor has asked that the students stay an extra 45 minutes for each class for the semester.  Is this reasonable?  She is furious and upset.  Already on less than 6 hours of sleep this morning.,50,330,414.51937973106897,college
Do you read the syllabus,"Hi all, prof here. I'm putting my syllabi together for Fall semester and would like to include statements in there about various campus resources (food pantry, violence prevention center, mental health services, etc). This would be beyond what is usually required by my university, however I would like to make as much info available as I can, particularly for first year students. 

But, my question: do students actually read the syllabus? I know from years of teaching that students often don't even read the grade requirements and more essential class policies. So, how helpful is it to include additional information about other campus resources? What do you think?

Edit: Thanks for all the great responses! 😊",127,328,429.986254731069,college
Why do dorms cost so much?,"My 200 sqft room that I share and has a community bathroom costs $3200/semester, which is around 5 months. An apartment that is barely off campus for the same price would have private bathrooms for every person and various amenities. 

Can anyone explain why they are so expensive? I truly do not know where the money goes.",83,330,30.469715379217156,college
Got my presidential congratulations in the mail today!,,53,328,1045.0285926940319,college
How to Confront A Bad Roommate,"I really need some help. I have an awful roommate and I’m in tears writing this. I am very socially anxious and my roommate (shared bedroom) needs to have a lot more respect for me. I have no idea how to talk to her and I can’t go to an RA because I feel like she is gonna tell me to talk to her before I even mention anything to the RA. She never goes to class and doesn’t have a car or job so she is in the room 24/7 almost. She is not paying the school any money because FAFSA denied her since she failed last semester and is failing this one. It makes me so upset she is here. I am a nursing student and I work up to 35 hours a week as a nurse’s assistant. I have lots of late nights and early mornings and sometimes I do not sleep for over 24 hours because I work two part time jobs. My sleep is so important to me. She is constantly going in and out of the room from 10pm - 4 am. She has had multiple boys over in the room without warning me and I feel very uncomfortable because they come in at 2 am when I’m asleep and I get woken up by them. I often sleep in a nightshirt and I can’t even get up to go to the bathroom because I don’t want the guy to see my in my nightshirt, maybe I am just bashful I don’t know. She sleeps with the TV very loud on after I asked her to turn it down and I physically went over and turned it down because she’s not even watching it I thought she was asleep. She often leaves the door unlocked and does not take her keys and asks me to leave it unlocked. A few nights ago, in the middle of the night, a girl came into the room without knocking because my roommate had asked me to leave it unlocked and she was gone for over two hours. Her friend rummaged around looking for food. I cannot sleep here. I’m sorry if this post is a mess but I don’t know what to do. I feel as if she is not going to change and it’s not fair I’m paying to live here and I feel awkward and honestly a bit unsafe. I feel trapped and I want to start sleeping in my car. ",47,329,209.59186815699493,college
"I know most of you don't care, but I just got into my dream school after being rejected, and deferred from multiple schools. I was feeling down and worried but now I feel invincible. Anyways I just wanted to have my moment of euphoria and share it with y'all. For any of you doubting yourself, don't.",,55,327,987.3482107495875,college
For all you kiddos living off campus,,12,325,51.05649778662456,college
my parents don’t support my major,"it’s not official yet but i want to change my major to psychology. as of right now i’m a biology major and i hate it- it’s nothing but science courses and biological electives. it’s also more geared for pre-med students, which isn’t me. 

i’m passionate about psychology, i’m better at it, i enjoy the writing as i read a lot and pride myself in having good writing skills. im pre-physicians assistant regardless of what my major is, so isn’t that all the more reason to major in something i actually enjoy? also, if for some reason i change my mind about the PA track (which i’m considering), i would be interested in getting my masters in something psych related. my parents hate this idea because it means more schooling and more money to spend but i’m going to be stuck with student loan debt regardless, so why not go ahead and get my masters? 

also, my parents don’t understand no matter how many times i tell them that i can major in anything i want and still be pre-PA. i’ve had to explain this so many times to them and it’s like they get amnesia or something, and i have to tell them again. a few months ago when i decided i wanted to change my major and explained to them that i would still aim for PA school, they were supportive. 

and finally, i think my parents want me to major in something like biology because they care about how i look to other people. this is actually the reason i’m writing this post- we were talking to a neighbor and i told them my situation, and once i went back inside my mom blew up in my face telling me i’m wasting my time majoring in psych and that i’ll be working a dead-end job i don’t like. i had to explain to her that i’m still PA and like i said before, she doesn’t understand what the fuck i mean when i tell her i can major in just about anything and still go to PA school. also my neighbor was asking me questions about school and my dad started answering questions for me. it makes me so mad because i can tell they have some plan for me that they don’t want. i’ve ranted to my advisor about this more than once and she tells me every time to do what i want. what do i do in this situation? also how do i deal with my parents?

edit: 1) i am aware that what i said about debt is stupid and that i do not want more debt than less debt. 2) i am aware that a psychology BA is one of the most useless degrees i can get, which is why if i go through with psych i would go to grad school.",121,323,104.95209963847643,college
Are B's mediocre grades?,"Someone on Reddit told me they were, for the major I was doing (Economics). ",142,322,203.16169454588385,college
When your professor says he's not taking role anymore...,,58,322,1667.3827362125503,college
In a bit of a pickle,"So without saying too much in fear of this being TMI, I’m switching majors from bioengineering to biochem and since I’m switching to an “easier” major (my parents’ logic), my parents have refused to pay for the remainder of my undergrad education which is about $20,000 a year with scholarships. Financially, what’s the best way to get out of this with as little debt as possible? I have two years of schooling left. Thank you in advance!",57,324,179.33140519403196,college
failed for the first time in my life.,"I am a medical student of the second year, and today we got our results back from finals, and I failed in a module, this is my first time to fail, what shall I do?

&#x200B;

any advice appreciated",32,320,127.45374315699493,college
An old man's advice,"When I went to college, I intended on becoming a teacher. The week the semester started, the uni announced my program got the axe. I failed in my due diligence to research other fields and allowed myself to be recruited into the recreation program. It was fun, but it did nothing for my career. Now at 60 I realize that I could have been successful teaching if I had only changed what I would have taught. The moral of the story is to choose your major wisely. You may have 30, 40 or more years doing it. Don't pick something that you won't enjoy. Life is just too damn short.",23,326,382.08010889773567,college
What to bring with you to your dorm,"There was a request in the megathread to make a new megathread dedicated to stuff to bring with you to college in hopes to cut down on the amount of people asking this question. We hope this will helpful for incoming freshman. If I miss anything on the list please comment down below so I can edit it in. If its received well I'll also consider putting it in the sidebar as a resource for future freshman that come to the subreddit in upcoming years. 




Remember that your dorm room will probably be smaller than your room at home. Don't bring too much stuff- especially too many clothes. 





**Essential Items To Bring**


* Personal Items- Student ID, Government Issued ID, some spending money or a debit/credit card, anything else you might need in order to secure employment on/off campus. 


* Bed Sheets

* Pillows + Pillow Cases


* Comforter + Blankets


* Laundry Basket


* Laundry Items (Detergent, Fabric Softener, Tide Pods, Whatever you use at home)


* Clothes Hangers

* Deodorant/antiperspirant  


* Any Medication you take at home


* Cold Medicine + Cough Drops. Sickness spreads fast in dorms. 



* Tissues 

* Napkins


* Umbrella + Clothing appropriate for rain/light snow


* Shower caddy


* Flip flops for the shower


* Shampoo/Conditioner/Body Wash/Anything else you use in the shower


* At least 2 towels 


* Toothbrush + Toothpaste. I've actually seen people forget this. 


* Anything else you usually use in the bathroom at home- floss, facial moisturizer, cotton swabs, hair dryer, etc 


* Shaving products


* Enough clothes. Don't bring your whole wardrobe but also don't bring so little that you have to do laundry every few days. I pack about 15 shirts, a couple pairs of pants, 15ish pairs of underwear and socks, and a few sweaters. 


* Formal Clothing. If you have a full suit consider bringing it. I bring a few dress shirts for interviews. You want to make sure you bring something other than just tshirts and jeans in case something comes up where you need to dress more formally. 


* A general first aid kit. At least have a few bandaids and antibiotic cream in case of minor injury


* Trash Bags. Trash bins are usually provided and you don't have to bring your own. 

* Water Bottle 


* Cleaning supplies to keep your room somewhat clean 



* Plastic forks/spoons/knives as well as bowls, plates, and cups. 


* Batteries if you use anything that requires batteries. 


* Extension cord. 

* Food. Stuff like Ramen you can keep in your room for a while without it going bad 


* Storage Bins or Boxes

**School Supplies** 



* Pens and Pencils + Eraser. 


* Pencil Sharpener if bringing non-mechanical pencils 


* Notebooks/Binders/Paper 



* Folders



* Backpack 


* Laptop or some form of computer. 


* Graphing Calculator 


* Stuff for taking Notes. Highlighters/Index Cards/Post-it Notes. Only bring if you think you'll use it. 



**Non-Essential Items that are useful or may come in handy**



* A fan 


* Headphones to block out noise


* Stamps/Envelopes in case you have to mail something


* A microwave and fridge (Check regulations for your school)


* TV/Monitor + Possible Gaming Consoles 


* Coffee Maker


* Electric Kettle

* Posters/Wall Decorations 


* Rug

* A toolkit 


* Flashlight 


* Iron 


* Kitchen products like pots/pans if you think you might cook once in a while instead of eat in the dining halls. 


* A shoe rack 


* A safe/footlocker if you wish to lock up valuables. 


* Door Decorations- some people really like the mini-whiteboard 


* Lint Brush 


* Condoms. RA's usually hand out free ones but I prefer bringing my own. 



* Tape



* Scissors 


* Paper Clips/Stapler 


* Lamps


* Bike/Skateboard. Be sure to bring a bike lock if you bring your bike. 


* Melatonin 

* Mattress Pad


* A picture frame with something to remind you of home


**What Not to Bring With You**



* Printer. Printers are available in the library and some universities, like mine, give a certain amount of free prints. I never use them up in a semester. Also people will hate you if you have a wifi printer. 



* Winter Clothing. Bring a hoodie or light jacket with you on move in day- but don't bring the heavy winter gear right away. Pick it up over thanksgiving break or visit home and bring it back with you. Only exception being if you're an international student or out of state student and won't be returning home until winter break. 



* Textbooks. If you are bringing textbooks with you on move-in day then you are making a classic freshman mistake. Textbooks are never required on the first day of class. Attend class first to see if its really going to be needed. And never buy full price. Free pdfs of textbooks are out there on the internet. If you're looking for a legal alternative- renting from sites like amazon is almost always way cheaper than buying a brand new textbook. 



* A chair. Unless you're 100% sure housing doesn't provide any- your chair will probably be sitting under your bed for the entire semester. 


* Stuff your roommate will be bringing. Reach out to your roommate and coordinate who brings what. You don't want to waste space by having two people bring the same item that you guys can just share. 

* Stuff your college provides. Some colleges provide, for instance, fridges and microwaves to their students living in dorms. If this is the case- don't bring your own. Check to see what is already provided to you. 

* Your highschool relationship. Especially if its gonna be long distance once you move into college. Consider if its really worth it. It usually doesn't work out and those long skype calls can prevent you from meeting other people in the beginning weeks of dorm life. Trust me- my relationship from highschool ended rather quickly once college started. 


* Banned Items. Check with housing to see what's allowed and what's not. I love the smell of candles but unfortunately they're just not allowed in my dorm or many dorms across the country. You don't want to bring something that could get you in trouble. 








Leave any suggestions and feedback down below. If you have any questions pertaining items not on the list feel free to ask below and someone will get back to you. There are lots of items that are acceptable to bring to college but I couldn't put every possible item on the list. Use this as a general guideline. If you use something every single day at home but its not on my list- don't automatically assume you have to leave it at home. 



Have a safe move-in! ",101,321,1161.2284653792171,college
Statement from the University of Pennsylvania on the college admissions scandal.,"&#x200B;

[Statement from Penn regarding admissions scandal](https://www.mcsweeneys.net/articles/a-statement-from-the-university-of-pennsylvania-regarding-the-college-admissions-bribery-scandal?fbclid=IwAR1cDwrdFb6skRsdduzhqT81Kz4uyPpcop8bxUqIYA5hf-4RqN_HB6AEDT8)

////Edit: Here’s the actual text////

When we learned that at least 50 people participated in a massive college admissions scam, deploying fraudulent means to get their children into our nation’s elite universities, **we were appalled, disgusted, and outraged that not a single one of them was using these deviant tactics to get into the University of Pennsylvania.**

It is just despicable that these privileged, wealthy families, who already enjoy every advantage, would be so deceitful and unethical in their efforts to secure a coveted spot at Yale, Stanford, or Georgetown, but not at Penn, which — friendly reminder! — is an Ivy League school. It’s extremely exclusive. Very difficult to get into. Definitely harder than Georgetown and sometimes harder than Stanford; it sort of depends on the year.

What’s especially appalling to us, as one of the finest academic institutions in the world, is how many of these students did not even care about their education. We’re looking at you, Olivia “I don’t know how much of school I’m gonna attend” Jade. Well, Olivia, maybe you’d feel differently if you learned about a certain someone named Benjamin Franklin, who founded the University of Pennsylvania in 1740 and also invented bifocals, the Warby Parkers of his day. You could say Ben was America’s first influencer. People already do, actually. It’s a thing. Tell your friends!

As long as you’re going to send a photo of your unathletic daughter on a rowing machine along with a check for $500,000 to a crew coach, why not send it to our crew coach? We have a river here. It’s pretty famous. Probably you’ve heard of it? The Schuylkill. Yes, that’s how it’s spelled. You say it like, skoo-kull. It’s a really lovely body of water and a great place for your daughter to pretend to be a coxswain while she just sits in a boat and vlogs. We would never have accepted the bribe, obviously, because that would go against our code of conduct. We hate crime; that’s why our law school is so good. But it would have been nice to be asked.

Paying $15,000 so the proctor will change your daughter’s SAT answers after she takes the test? Horrifying. But not as horrifying as going to such extreme lengths just to get your kid into USC when you could have sent those doctored transcripts to Philadelphia, PA. That’s where we’re located, just FYI. Like, you knew that already for sure but in case you’d forgotten: We’re in Philadelphia! What a town. It’s such an underrated city. Definitely better than wherever Wake Forest is. (Virginia? New Hampshire?) We’re biased but we can say, with total confidence, that Philly is better than New York. People say that all the time when they visit. They’re like, “Wow, this is so much cooler than I thought it was going to be! I guess my expectations were very low?”

A few days after the scandal broke, people started to talk about the Trumps and we were like FINALLY. But it turned out everybody was just giving Jared Kushner shit for paying $2.5 million to get into Harvard. HARVARD IS A GLORIFIED FINISHING SCHOOL. For fuck’s sake, what about all the money Trump promised he would donate to Penn so his daughter Ivanka and one of his dumb-dumb sons could go to Wharton?? Wharton is a Penn school, and sure, sometimes it bothers us that the Wharton brand is so strong while the Penn brand is still sort of confusing to a lot of people, but whatever. Tiffany went to the College of Arts and Sciences, by the way. At Penn.

Our only consolation in the face of this devastating news is that these criminals, whose schemes were a shameful violation of what is intended to be a fair, meritocratic process, will be brought to justice, **and that none of them bothered to scam their way into Cornell.**",17,320,211.98115056440236,college
First semester of community college,,40,324,310.7334306569949,college
I think my posted exam score was wrong,"So I got a 90 on the first exam and for this test I felt the same about it, studied the same, and I was confident. Went through the test, maybe missed a few questions but still felt confident. I check online and it says I got an 18%... I’ve never got any score near that so I’m 95% confident it was a mistake. I possible had the answers shifted or my score was entered backwards (I got 18.1818% if i got the ones i missed right I would’ve got 81.8181%). I’ve emailed my professor, but is this sort of thing uncommon? And would I be able to check my Scantron for mistakes? Because if this 18% goes through, I’m done for and I know I didn’t get this score

Edit: Professor told me to come in to check my scantron tomorrow, says might’ve been wrong form

Edit 2: Yup! I came in late and had just marked the exam # instead of where I was supposed to put my form #. Ended up doing really well; super relieved. Always contact your professor if you’re worried about something like this!",40,323,337.0106181569949,college
How do you handle your “I am” statement with grace to your peers?,"This is mostly a question for Juniors+ 

You know when you start figuring out what you do and who you are after grad. Like “oh I’m studying this and I plan on doing this” 

Whenever I’m networking or doing meetings or events and professionals in the industry ask what *I* do I always get nervous and just vaguely say I’m in interested in microbio even though I know specifically I’m interested in infectious disease from animal vectors.

I always feel weird explaining myself cause I’m not even a professional, only a student, so saying “I do this” feels kind of silly. 

Does anyone else know what I’m talking about? How do you guys explain yourselves when networking? ",23,313,211.3737894532912,college
I’m so fucking hyped...,3 days left of pooping in filthy dorm stalls where I have no privacy because people are constantly running in and out. 3 days of uncomfortable shitty showers. 3 days left of having to share a bedroom and having an incompatible bed time. 3 days left of college food that makes me sick. In 3 days I get to go home for the summer and when I come back I’m living off campus and I couldn’t be fucking happier. ,53,314,527.3123311199579,college
Professor Not Replying,"I had a pretty serious personal emergency regarding a family death. I notified all my professors but one of them who doesn't like me very much has ignored it now for a week. I told my academic advisor and she was kind enough and offered to email him. But he is ignoring her emails as well now. 

And I know he has been on his email because he sent out a class wide email literally 30 minutes after my advisor sent hers out. 

I know professors reserve the right to ignore emails from students, but is it typical for professors to ignore other faculty? What should I do?",55,314,365.8196459347727,college
"So there's this kid who used to walk around campus with a boombox and would walk into buildings with it almost every day. I say ""used to"" in that I just witnessed someone take it from him and smash it on the ground repeatedly for almost two minutes","Truly a satisfying spectacle 

Edit: Before you ask, yes he did blast music on its loudest setting. The music was mainly either old school rap (which I'm sort of ok with) or heavy metal/screamo.",40,315,770.4099005644024,college
How can I throw a successful college party?,"My college has a very isolated yet cliquey vibe with not much of a social life, and I really want to throw an event to bring my dorm hall (or even entire dorm building if I’m feeling ambitious) together for some fun. 

I’m thinking of starting with a back-to-school game-night party; we have a nice patio space that no one uses. I used to help set up movie nights at my old college as a member of Hall Council and most of them were successful, but we don’t have a hall council here, and I don’t know how to do this as a single hostess, or how to gather some organizing help. I’m also introverted, but I do open up at a good social event, so this will help me, as well.

What advice do you have to give for throwing a fun college party? How do I get a good amount of people to come? How do I keep them entertained so that they stay a while? Is there anyone that I should get permission from or any rules to follow? And how do I overall throw a good party, especially as the new kid that no one knows?

Also, what are some fundraising ideas, or how to have a good time for cheap? No hall council=no funds (our Rez life really is that sad).

It’s also important to note that because of regulations above me, I can’t bring or have alcohol. 

Thanks!",62,311,89.25148621255049,college
it's happening.. i'm going to graduate,"It's the middle of my final semester and it hit me today that i'm actually going to graduate in December. My academic regalia came in the mail (i brought online early in case i needed to exchange anything) and I put it on to make sure it fit. 

I almost cried. I started uni at 34 after spending my whole life being told by one person in particular that i was an idiot and a moron. I took this to heart and believed it for the longest time.

I ended up going to uni more as a test of myself and i'm proud to say i've passed. The robes are hanging up and it's been such an emotional day. I can't imagine what i will be like on my actual graduation day",17,314,769.5340325088468,college
"Thanks for that, McGraw-Hill",,18,311,1554.26111584218,college
This was my final exam “study guide”,,20,310,437.87428713847646,college
College is depressing.,"Just got back from getting dinner at a dining court and realized how alone I am. It’s a nice night, so I was surrounded by people with their friends going to parties and events. Now I’m just sulking in my room. It’s so painful to be surrounded by people having fun. I have tried everything to make friends including approaching people, joining clubs, etc. I just can’t do it. I know lots of people go through this, but it feels so alienating. I was pretty sociable in high school, so I’m not sure what my problem is now. I’m still in touch with a lot of my friends from back home, but I have no one here. Every week is spent just watching YouTube videos, eating, going to class, and sleeping. Anyways, I just needed to get this off my chest. Any advice is appreciated as I’ve tried pretty much everything. ",42,314,726.960953805143,college
Unusually practical guide for college (xpost from /r/applyingtocollege),"Hi everyone -- I'm a current college admissions counselor and I posted this on /r/applyingtocollege and was told that this subreddit would probably make use of it as well. So I hope they're right and that this does in some way improve your college life. Because of the nature of that sub it's geared slightly toward newer students, but I'm sure that people currently attending can get something out of it as well.

Here is my ""unusually practical guide for college."" It is arranged in no order at all and was completely improvised this evening. I've been carrying all of this around in my head and wanted to give real, concrete advice, rather than airy, head-space advice (like ""be open-minded!"") We're getting nitty-gritty here. 

Keep in mind that I've only been to one college. I was in English and Political Science. I tried to generalize this, but not everything will apply to every school, and I'm afraid a lot of it is writing-centric. I hope that some other former (or even current) college students can add to this, especially ones with stronger STEM backgrounds. 

And so: 

**Academic**

* While coffee is delicious, tea is better when consumed in mass quantities. If you're studying for finals, your body will feel much better on three cups of tea than it will on three cups of coffee. On that note, learn to eat fruits and vegetables if you don't right now. Your body will thank you. If you have access to unlimited food in the cafeteria, this is your time to try new things. 

* Get to know your faculty advisor quickly. Your school may assign one to you or you may get to pick, but whatever the system is, get on their radar as soon as you can. If they see an opportunity that needs students (research project, internship, whatever) they're more likely to send it to you if they know your name. They will also be better able to advise you if they know more about you.

* When working on group projects, if you're not using Google Drive, you're doing it wrong. Keep everything in there, even things that individual group members are working on and will share with the group later. You never know what can happen and so it's best to keep everything in a common space.

* Get organized. Somehow. I put every assignment and appointment in a Google Calendar and set daily ""to-dos."" Every Friday (or Thursday, because sometimes my weekends started on Thursdays, which was incredible) I created a list of everything I needed to do that weekend, and I stuck to it. Related:

* Use your weekends to your advantage. Things really slow down, so it's a perfect opportunity to jump-start a paper or a reading. 

* You don't have to read every word. Learn to skim. Skim the optional reading too -- it'll come in handy. 

* If you can, take notes on paper, not the computer. When you do this, you mentally siphon out the less important information in favor of the more important information because you can't write as quickly as you can type. This will make your notes more valuable later on.

* Take notes on what you read. Even short summaries like ""Skowroneck considers presidencies as part of long historical periods marked by prevailing ideologies established by certain presidents"" will make your life **much** easier when working on final papers. (Also, y'all should check out Stephen Skowroneck's theory of presidential leadership in political time -- it's fascinating.)

* Use the works cited page of books to your advantage. If you're struggling finding more information on a topic, that's your first port of call. 

* Learn how to write papers in ways that work for you. I always wrote whatever I wanted for the assigned length of the paper. Then I wrote a schematic of what had I puked onto the page, re-organized that schematic into a structure that actually made sense, and fleshed out key details and holes. Some people write a full outline and then start. Some people organize by scholar, case study, source text, or school of thought. Whatever you do, come up with something that works for you. 

* Ask for help. Your professor's office hours, a tutor, the writing center, the counseling center, your classmates. Nobody will think less of you. (Pro-tip: asking classmates for help means talking to the smartest people in your class, which also usually means the most interesting people. Talking to interesting people, I would argue, is the whole point of college.) 

* ""It's hard"" is a TERRIBLE reason to not take a class. The best classes I've taken have also been the hardest classes. ""It's Hard"" is also the name of a pretty bad album by The Who. 

* If you're in a program that lets you be undecided for a year or two, take advantage of that. If you see something that you don't know much about, don't write it off as uninteresting. 

* If you're working on a paper, don't stop your writing session at the end of a paragraph. Start the next paragraph and then stop. This way, when you sit back down to keep going, you don't have to putter about thinking ""how should I start?"" You will already have a beginning. 

* Find a pen you like. Mine is the Bic Grip Roller. I used to go with the Pilot Precise V5 Extra Fine, but they leak sometimes. 

* Balance out your courses. If you have the opportunity to decide which classes you'll take which semesters, plan ahead and avoid loading a lot of hard classes into one semester. 

* If you have a class that only meets once or twice a week, find another time that week that you can treat like that class to do homework only for that class. For example, the year I did a thesis, I dedicated 9-12 every Friday morning to work for that thesis. I did a lot of other work for it throughout the week, but having a dedicated time to work on it really focused me. 

* You can revise your work much more effectively if you put 24 hours between the last time you worked on it and the time you started revising it. 

* Go to campus conversations and events about topics that are outside your subject area. Just because you're not studying it doesn't mean you shouldn't learn about it. This is the one time in your life where you will have the benefit of professors lecturing for free right outside your door. (Also, these events tend to have free food.)

* Keep a novel going to read for fun. I would start all of my library sessions just by reading a little bit for my own enjoyment. The idea was to get my brain going with a warm-up before I jumped into the work I would get graded on. Crosswords, Sudoku, and Chess are good alternatives to this if you're not much of a reader. 

* Find a hobby. It's really important to be able to do something that is productive but not academic. You won't feel bad about working on this thing, because it's productive, but you simply can't spend all of your time on your studies. I played a lot of music, but I know people who tried woodworking, knitting, yoga, improv comedy, and one guy with a unicycle. 

* Purchase a copy of *The Elements of Style*. Read it once at the beginning of each semester. If you carry it with you everywhere, you're not over-doing it.

**Social**

* Learn to make one large, shareable dish like a dip, lasagna, cake, or bowl of chili. There are a lot of pot lucks in college, and you will be well-prepared if you have a dish like this on standby. PM me for a bean dip recipe that people actually request of me when I go to stuff at their houses. 

* Go to parties with people you know. Make sure that you keep track of them and they keep track of you (and that you keep track of them) throughout the night. Walk each other home. 

* When considering campus opportunities, it easier to say yes and then say no than it is to say no and then yes. You can always try something once (a sport, a club, whatever) and then say ""you know, this isn't for me"" if it isn't for you. It's much harder to jump on things once they've started. 

* If you're at a party, never leave a drink unattended. Ever. 

* Set aside structured time to see the friends who mean the most to you. This can be an orientation group, people from your floor, whatever. College gets busy, and so ritualizing friendship makes it A) more frequent and B) more special, somehow. I know people who had ""family dinner"" with their closest friends every Sunday, and nothing got in the way. 

* You are not bound to your friends, especially the ones you make early on. I ditched my first-semester friends in January of my freshman year and it was one of the best choices I've ever made. They weren't bad people; we just had nothing in common. Don't be afraid to branch out.

* Branching out is scary and that's okay. 

* Do not judge anyone's character or personality (unless they do something very heinous) during their first semester. Everyone in the first semester is very desperate to be liked, and people tend not to do their best when they're under that kind of pressure. Let people (and yourself) mellow out a little bit before you start deciding who you like. This advice goes doubly for sophomores, juniors, and seniors who are passing judgment on incoming first-year students. 

* Find someone who you're close to who does not go to your school who you can call if you just need to vent. 

* Don't get that upset when most of your high school friendships collapse. It just happens.

* Give people room to change and become better people. College has a way of knocking people down a peg. If you meet someone who looks like they need that, check back on them in a year or two. 

* Take your work seriously, but don't take yourself seriously. Otherwise, you'll end up like one of the people in the above tip.

* Being a campus celebrity is not that fun. It's better to just know a lot of people so you have a lot of friendly faces on campus that you can say hi to than it is to just be ""known."" It's also okay to just have a small group of people who you like. 

* Meet older students. It doesn't matter if you do it through clubs or sports teams or greek communities, but these people have all the key info on your school, like which classes and professors are good, where to go for really good Vietnamese food, and which improv groups to see. They will also invite you to the cooler parties. 

* If you're unhappy, make a change. Cut or change an extracurricular, start hanging out with different people, break up with that person. Just don't make changes indiscriminately -- try to find the root of your dissatisfaction and fix that. ",24,315,996.4051899162541,college
"Just missed the 300,000 mark on the 4th floor of the cal poly library.. RIP",,6,307,575.7719723236617,college
I don’t want to go through rush and my mother is forcing me,"Title says it all.. I do not want to be in a sorority and my mother has been getting recs and doing the paperwork while I drag my feet. I do feel bad for not wanting to join a sorority because my mother spent a lot of time and effort into all of this, but I never asked her to and the whole time I really have not wanted to be apart of one.

Rush starts in 9days.. does anyone know how I can drop out of it? I’m going to have to go through all five days, but at the end can I not pick a sorority?",151,311,80.44611584218012,college
Hey you! Go study for finals! Get off Reddit!,Jk :( im on it too ,63,313,309.7970996384764,college
Living in a college dorm? YOU NEED THIS.,"If you're living in a college dorm with community bathroom and showers, you'll need to make a crucial purchase. 

When I was a freshman, my parents and family made it very obvious why I needed this item. 

But when I got there, other people didn't have them and I found it quite disgusting. 

You need to purchase bathroom / shower flip flops! Or shoes. Something to wear on your feet in the restroom. 

Save yourself from a nasty rash, fungus, bacteria, etc. 

GL. ",51,307,794.2904213977357,college
That empty feeling after a hectic week,"This week was insane by my poor standards. I had 4 exams and 1 presentation. It felt like finals week. Now that all the chaos is done, I feel weird just sitting with nothing else to do. I had weeks like this before but this time it feels different. Its thanksgiving break for me and I already feel bored. Anyone else have the same experience?",19,308,333.9363936199579,college
What's a MUST DO in college?,Looking to maximize my college experience and want to try new things,157,306,512.0499237125505,college
Ohio State University suspends fraternity activities,,74,306,698.3708612125505,college
Is this real?,"Hey guys

So I keep getting letters from the National Society of Collegiate Scholars

But I have no idea if it’s actually real or a scam. 

Anyone have experience with them?",55,307,99.17860426810604,college
Anyone else notice that the lowkey kids are always the best students?,"I don't mean just introverted or quiet, like the most unassuming students turn out to be geniuses once I start talking or working with them. Anyone else agree?",37,308,608.2577825088467,college
"My motto: if today is not the due date, then today is not the do date",,39,306,1047.241590379217,college
Just wanted to take a moment to show off my campus,,25,307,192.84580334218012,college
Does anybody else feel like they are suffocating trying to live in a dorm with another person?,"I’m basically 500% done with it. Everytime I’m doing something I want to do alone my roommate walks in. Honestly always at the worst times. My blood pressure literally rises when she comes in the room because she stresses me out. She is very high energy and squeals and giggles a lot and sometimes handling that early in the morning or any other part of the day is hard. She’s also an international student so she doesn’t leave for breaks/weekends. Every waking day is spent with her. 

I like to be alone the majority of the time and dorm life has taken that away from me and put someone I can barely tolerate in its place. I don’t want to be mean to my roommate or anything, and I try to keep it nice and peaceful bc my logic for being annoyed with her is based solely on the fact that she exists. I can’t get away. It’s not escapable and it drives me crazy. I will just be relaxing in the room totally at peace and then she comes in and there goes that. I don’t want her to think I’m leaving the room because of her but when she comes back I have to get out or I’ll go crazy. Phew I just need my peacefulness back and I don’t know how to get it.

I need at least a full week to recharge from having to be around her all the time, and going home doesn’t count because that’s not exactly a vacation either. I stopped going home because home isn’t a happy place for me but now there’s no way for me to get a break. Only 3 weeks left in the semester, hopefully I’ll make it through.",51,307,548.3376899162541,college
"What's the worst, best, or corniest joke your professor has ever said during lecture?","""I only tell you guys jokes periodically... Because I want a good reaction.""


I hate chemistry. ",95,307,552.422828805143,college
"LPT: Bring an ethernet cord to college. Not all dorms have ethernet ports, but if yours does your connection will be much faster and more reliable.","I've been on my college's wireless wifi for a week, and I've had countless disconnections and generally slow wifi.

I noticed that my desk (in my dorm) is next to an ethernet port, so I figured that hard-wiring myself in might work better.

It's SO MUCH FASTER. Previously when I would load GIFs on reddit they would go frame by frame. Now they go full speed. I haven't had any disconnections so far.

Do it.",53,304,1148.953916768106,college
"I just realized yesterday that this entire time, my degree hadn’t been conferred. What to do?","finished all of my classes in December 2017.

Paid off my bill, applied for graduation, all paperwork submitted and walked between March-May 2018.

I hear no word from my university’s registrars office or my department head. Not in my school email, physical mail, nor personal email. Nada. My account never at any point showed if my application for graduation had been rejected. 

Now it’s June 2019, I’m in the middle of applying to graduate schools. I call my school to request for a transcript and they tell me that my transcript won’t show that I’m a conferred student. Additionally, since it’s been just about 2 years, I am an “inactive student”.

I broke out in tears. I’m so sad that my school failed me but I’m also aware that I failed myself by not being as persistent. I never got my diploma, I just assumed that you had to order one and I never did. 

I just don’t want my degree to show that my degree was awarded in summer of 2019 even though I’ve been finished with classes since December’s 2017. When I had given my advisor all of my paperwork he told me that I was “all set to graduate” so I can’t see why my application would be denied. Nonetheless, I was never informed until yesterday.

They told me to email the head of my department and I did. No response. 

I’m freaking out someone please tell me that I’ll be fine.

Update: heard back from head of department. He said that the last email he sent to my now deactivated school email address was from January 2018 about my concentration. Had my graduation application been denied for anything having to do with my major classes, it would’ve been him informing me. 10/10 for my department head for getting back to me quickly & helping me on a Saturday in late June. 

I’m more hopeful now but still nervous. You guys are great for helping me out with this :)

Update: problem fixed. I actually was never informed by my department and informed (very late) by the registrar. I was behind in a humanities course, a total curve ball considering that I had a bunch of philosophy classes. So they just added one of my extra philosophy classes and certified my degree 😎

I hope you enjoyed this read. It was very terrifying and embarrassing but I learned a huge lesson in taking control in my life. I should’ve reached out to the university after commencement. 

My university is awesome for understanding and giving me my degree! I’m so happy rn!",21,304,110.50832649032826,college
"Colleges can cancel classes, but can they uncancel classes?","Hurricane approaches, and has diverted from my area, just curious.",24,303,400.2997848236616,college
"Just had my first college class today, wanted to share my experience","So today I just had my first college class as a freshman at a community college, and I gotta say I had a blast. Because of that, I want to share my experience to hopefully help a future reader with his freshman year at college...

A year ago, I made a decision to go to college and to prepare for it as much as I could so that it would be one of the best experiences of my life. So I started browsing around this sub, watching youtube videos, reading blogs, and basically getting my hands on every college preparation resource I could.

I found a lot of very interesting tips and opinions, so I formulated my own ideas and goals and tried to stick with them as much as I could.

I woke up several hours before my first class so that I could have adequate time to have breakfast and to get to campus (it's a community college, so it has no dorms).

I arrived at the college one hour early, I made sure I knew where the classroom was, and then I sat down in some chairs outside of the classroom waiting for the class to begin. Since I'm an introvert, I tend to keep to myself and not be very social in public. But I promised that this time it would be different, so I gathered all the courage I had, and started talking to a guy that was sitting next to me. It ended up being a great conversation, we talked about the interests we shared and about our college experiences.

Ten minutes before the class I entered the classroom and I sat in the front row. The class was English Composition 1, the professor gave us an introduction to the class, went over the syllabus, and then he started with the class material right away. 

I tried to do the best I could to participate in class, answering the question the professor gave us and being an active listener.

During the class, I noticed which students were paying attention in class and being active participants, so that at the end I could walk up to them and try to start a study group with them.
 
After the class ended, I walked up to the professor and introduced myself. Then, I walked to a student who seemed to be interested in the class, and I told her about the study group. She ended up accepting and then proceeded to share her contact information with me. 

That was it! If you made it this far in the post, I love you, thank you for taking your time to read about my experience. I hope that if you are about to start college this post can help you.

I want to thank every person from this sub, you guys are great people.

TL;DR: Just had my first class today and had a blast, met my professor, and interacted with other students. 

",52,305,646.2101204718098,college
Do y’all give everyone 100%s on student reviews?,"When a professor asks students to anonymously grade other students on a project or assignment, do you give everyone a 100 no matter how good or bad it is?",83,304,174.28771306440234,college
One of my motivations for finishing college is thinking about how one day that I'm gonna buy this Pikachu Plushie to pose next to my dipolma. Does anyone else have any sily reasons to stay motivated?,,35,303,15.746382045883822,college
Here is the best content from /r/college in 2018,"Thanks to all who participated in either voting or nominating posts worthy of being recognized for being quality content this past year. We look forward to another good year on the sub in 2019. The winners below will receive reddit platinum. A~~ny other nominated posts on the nomination thread will receive reddit gold and all users who nominated posts will also receive reddit gold (not sure how many months- I will use the coins until they run out)~~. Apparently we can't gift anything below platinum... I will give the remaining platinum again to everyone except OnionWayWay since they already received 2 months (I will pay for some of the platinum out of pocket to be fair to everyone). They will be disbursed within the next 24 hours. PM me if believed you're owed coins and did not receive them.

Also, for transparency, the following users will be contacted by PM for custom /r/college swag within the next week:

* /u/xpadawanryan
* /u/drgeneflow
* /u/2hrs

And here are the winners from all the categories!

**Dankest Meme**: Winner goes to /u/ATHENASEYE for [Smell Test](http://reddit.com/r/college/comments/9plbq0/smell_test/)

**Strangest Post**: Winner goes to /u/OnionWayWay for [Walked in on my Roommate Sucking his own dick](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/a2x4f0/walked_in_on_my_roommate_sucking_his_own_dick/)

**Most Helpful Post**: Winner goes to /u/drgeneflow for [Professor here. What can I and other profs do to make your experience in college less stressful?](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/a4h5nh/professor_here_what_can_i_and_other_profs_do_to/). Thank you for being a professor who truly cares.

**Most Motivating Post**: Winner goes to /u/2hrs for [If you at least TRY in college you will succeed](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/8yqoaz/if_you_at_least_try_in_college_you_will_succeed/)

**Best Lighthearted Post**: Winner goes to /u/peytondp3 for [this dude brought a whole ass turtle to our environmental science lecture](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/9rcewj/this_dude_brought_a_whole_ass_turtle_to_our/)

**Best College News**: Winner goes to /u/VA_Network_Nerd for sharing [this](https://old.reddit.com/r/college/comments/8rbp4e/harvard_records_show_discrimination_against/) post on racial inequality in admissions to Harvard. Also thanks to /u/caseyfla for the original post. You will receive reddit platinum as well for sharing such a significant news article to our subreddit!

**Weirdest Title**: Winner goes to /u/OnionWayWay for [Walked in on my roommate sucking his own dick](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/a2x4f0/walked_in_on_my_roommate_sucking_his_own_dick/?st=JQ91PDR8&sh=1f33d162). Enjoy the double reddit platinum reward!

**Best Comeback Story**. Winner goes to a mysterious redditor that deleted their account for [2.8 to 3.5 GPA comeback even with a year left to improve it more. It’s the most significant achievement I’ve ever accomplished](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/96js3r/28_to_35_gpa_comeback_even_with_a_year_left_to/)

**User Awards:**

**Best Procrastinator**: Winner goes to /u/thegoldengamer123 for the comment ""I’ll do this tomorrow"" on the nomination thread. Somehow I knew this would happen

**Most Helpful User:** Winner goes to u/xPadawanRyan. Thanks for all your contributions to the sub. They have definitely been noticed

**Most Helpful Mod:** Winner goes to /u/Laurasaur28. The financial aid guru! Glad to have you on the team and especially thankful for sticking around on the sub with me for the past couple years always working to help improve the sub!",7,301,278.8728288051431,college
Should I be worried?,"Last night, I was watching a movie in the common room of my friend's dorm building. There were about ten people I knew there fairly well, and then a girl off to the corner that I wasn't familiar with at all. While we were waiting for the movie to load, I made a joke that was definitely bordering on insensitive and distasteful. I'm not saying I didn't do anything wrong, because I did; everyone behaves differently when with a group of friends.

Amidst the laughter, the girl in the corner called me out for what I had said, saying it was something that should never be joked about it. She ended her speech with, ""and I'm an RA, so..."" Not looking for an argument, I quickly apologized, explained that it was a touchy subject that I myself have lived through, and left it at that. Everyone did a great job at moving the conversation forward to make it less awkward for me, but the girl kept stewing in the corner. I could physically feel her staring at me all night.

Throughout the course of the night, she kept making references to how much she liked the authority of her position, how much satisfaction she got out of writing up reports on people with infractions, that sort of thing. I thought it was very unprofessional for someone in her position, but besides that, incredibly worrisome.

Finals start in basically a week and a half. The last thing I want to worry about some RA who I was never formally introduced to gunning for me because of a joke. Has anyone been in this sort of situation with an RA flexing their power? Did they follow through with their promises? If she were to report me, what sort of thing should I expect? I've never had any disciplinary hearings or anything like that.  

EDIT: I'll just throw out what I said, since a handful of people have asked. We were watching *The Dark Knight Rises*, and I remarked something along the lines of, ""Batman would have a whole other set of problems if it was called *The White Knight Rises*."" The RA assumed I was being racist until we explained the definition of a ""white knight"" on the internet, and she grew even more furious upon hearing the meaning. ",68,302,543.3237778792171,college
What is your campus’s best kept secret?,,209,304,28.363511675513454,college
Advice on school/work full time... No high school experience at all,"I'll be attending college for the first time this spring semester. I've been out of school for over a decade and I've never actually attended high school. Naturally, I'm pretty nervous.

Unfortunately, I haven't been in school since 8th grade. I have no experience writing essays/projects/presentations or even being in any type of upper-level classroom setting. I've studied for the last 6mos or so to learn what I need to pass the GED tests. My goal was to pass and go to college and get a better job. 

I'm registered for online Intro to Biology, a developmental math class which is also online and a campus English class from 6 pm to 8:40 pm once a week. It's 11 credits and i work fulltime M-Th 6 am to 4:30 pm. I have 3 days off. 

I know many students take much more than this but I feel I'm literally jumping into this blind. I have written a total of 2 ""essays"" in my life and that was in middle school. (English is what I'm most worried about. It takes me a ridiculous amount of time to write anything at all and I'm not too thrilled about presentations and all that) I have no credit whatsoever, so I have to take all the intro courses and my major is very science heavy. I want to graduate on time but I cannot quit my job. I'm torn between taking it slow because of work and going head-on with school and work full-time. I self-studied everything from the bottom up to pass the GED. I can handle my time efficiently. I'm most worried about doing well in my classes. 

Has anyone jumped into college-level classes with little to no high school experience? Is 11 credit hours too much my first semester? If anyone could tell me their thoughts about my situation... if you yourself or you know someone in a similar position. Thoughts? Advice? 

&#x200B;",35,302,279.9139283421801,college
Harvard Rescinds Acceptances for At Least Ten Students for Obscene Memes,,64,302,864.9657686199579,college
Would it be dumb to transfer to an out of state university?,"So I’m currently a freshman at another university, and I don’t fit in here at all. Plus they don’t have rotc and being a military officer is something I’ve wanted to do for a long time, Also I am a minority and feel out of place at all times (only came here for an academic scholarship they offered me.) I want to transfer to VCU as they have diversity, ROTC, in a city(my current school is in the mountains with nothing to do) and for a couple other reasons I think it would be a good choice for me. The only problem is I am from North Carolina. When it came down to my college decision it was either VCU or where I am currently, and I chose here because of the money being offered and made the wrong choice.. anyways, Would accumulating that debt be worth it?",77,300,48.430652879217156,college
School starts back and the App Store trending page looks like this,,12,301,415.2873658421801,college
Just finished my third year of university strong!,,29,298,518.9437084347727,college
"Experiences with ""Flaky"" people?","Im a pretty easy going person.  I like to meet people when I go out or just in public, just really like to make new friends.  We make small talk and then they'll tell me something like ""yeah heres my number/snapchat, we should hang sometime for sure"".  Ill hit them up the next day or a few days later, and they will either ghost me or just wont be interested.  Not sure if its something that I'm doing wrong but I've noticed it, especially in recent weeks.  Any advice on how to respond to this? ",41,298,361.39883574958753,college
"Thank you, College Board. It's beautiful.",,24,298,1595.0974700088468,college
What would you do if you couldn't find a job after college?,"Let's say you have a college degree but you couldn't find a job. After six months of searching you get a fast food restaurant job, you try searching for higher paying jobs but they all turn you down. You never hear back. You still apply for jobs but every place tells you nope.

What do you do?",71,299,276.8864862125505,college
"I hate living at college, any help or advice?","I get anxiety thinking about going back to college this semester. This year was the first time I have had an anxiety attack, any help to soften the blow of college dorms?",82,295,277.2844144532912,college
"It took me until the first semester of my PhD to buy a desk, but I finally have my own workspace!",,25,291,764.0009538051431,college
High college fees you may not know about,,23,295,1269.2847616755134,college
How difficult is it having a desktop PC in a college dorm?,"For a little background, I recently got into PC gaming as opposed to console. Because my PS4 also kind of doubles as my family's Netflix and Hulu machine, I'm not planning on taking it with me to college (which is about 4 hours away). That being said, I will be bringing my PC with me to college. What are the logistics like? Do people usually pay to have it shipped to and from in the mail? The main way I'd be getting from home to school would be a Greyhound bus, so would it just be better packing it up in a suitcase and taking it with me on the bus? Any and all advice would be greatly appreciated. Thanks in advance!",75,291,124.05124315699494,college
What perks can I get with an .edu email address?,,70,297,858.2112547310691,college
Got this in a fortune cookie after bombing a final. I'm a physics major.,,23,291,1991.0011968606987,college
"Advice for college freshman (from a graduating senior): Don't care about what others think of you. Trust me, they're too busy caring about themselves. In fact, be yourself. Authenticity attracts people.",,29,291,1140.3744838977357,college
Found an old notebook. I apparently took very thorough notes during lectures.,,3,294,1186.7710232495874,college
My parents want to know my gpa,"I did horribly at this school. I have below a 2.0 but I’m taking a class this winter that I will surely get an A in. Aside from one F I’m resolving, how do I show my parents these grades? I feel like there’s something wrong with me for doing so badly even though I’m putting in a large amount of work and making sure I understand everything. I’m trying to transfer bc I hate my school but I can’t bring myself to show them.",76,291,291.2725973236616,college
"Recently graduated. Here are some tidbits of ""wisdom"" I picked up over my time as an undergrad.","1): It's *okay* to skip class, but you have to be methodical about it. If your professor is basically just reading aloud from a textbook that you can read yourself, a skip now and then is fine if you need to work on something else or if you're genuinely exhausted and need to rest a little (You're not going to get much from a lecture in that state anyway). 

2): Sometimes ""studying smarter"" is accepting the fact that you have a janky professor who contrives exams out of thin air, and not wasting time studying material that you and everyone else knows will NOT be on the exam. I'm not saying you shouldn't study *at all* in cases like this, but you need to allocate your time using common sense.

3): No matter how introverted you are, try and get least least one texting buddy per class. It helps to have someone to discuss the material with, and it can be a Godsend on homework sometimes.

4): Virtually everyone procrastinates, so don't feel guilty about it. That said, a lot of procrastination comes from simple psychological walls that are easily gotten rid of (keeping your books in your bag as opposed to taking them out when you get home, for instance).

5): If you're planning on going to grad school, be proactive asking professors for reference letters ahead of time, and don't wait until your last year/semester. Waiting isn't really a big deal if you did well in the class and know the professor, but if you're proactive, it makes the whole process of collecting references less of a task when the witching hour comes.

6): It's perfectly okay to have a good time every now and then for the sake of the ""college experience"", but never forget why you came to school to begin with. I've seen too many people with great potential post images and videos of themselves on social media at frat parties almost every night (And as you might guess, not many of them finished school).  ",26,291,602.0870533421802,college
Attention my brothers and sisters!,I would personally like to wish everyone luck on their finals! May the final exams gods show favor on us!,21,292,900.0948079718097,college
New York set to become first state to offer free tuition at public four-year colleges,,33,292,921.0744954718098,college
Life at the University of Michigan is awesome,,44,292,1773.281555656995,college
"Im currently a sophomore in high school with a weamsly 2.3 gpa. But, I am more than willing to ball out junior and senior year.","I am willing to do all extracurriculars and even summer school if that’s what it takes, or am I too fucked for college? 

Sorry in advance I really don’t know much about this whole process.",106,292,208.163442231069,college
Low grades and sad life,"I am a Comp. Eng. Undergrad Student from Brazil.
During my High School period I was considered smart and could solve any math problem, I had a lot of motivation.
Now in my second year, after having repeated Calculus I once and started Calculus II and some other basic topics like Electrical Circuits and Classic Mechanics I feel like I am the dumbest person in the whole world. I study a lot and I get grades like 5/10. In some classes I can barely understand what the professor says. Today I felt really bad when I asked a guy from my class how he could remember the exact number of the sections of Calculus II book. Some other guy answered ""because he studies"", like I don't. I put so much effort and stress, my life is entirely based on my college activities, and I can't even get a decent grade or at least look focused to other people. I feel like I am a failure. I am feeling deep sadness right now and don't know what to do. I believe I am gonna be a really bad professional at the future. Well, I really intended to follow academic career, but I doubt I can achieve it with such grades.
Has anyone been through the same? I really need a light.",68,289,111.03571074958754,college
"What are some attitudes and behaviors freshmen should let go of, going into college leaving highschool?","I'm a freshman at my college and this is advice that I'd like to know, unless there's any reason I'm not aware of that suggests it's advice I don't need. What are some detrimental characteristics you see generally among freshmen (academic, social, etc.) What can I do to correct these issues.",123,285,429.30721537921715,college
My roommate and I have officially made our dorm room into a strip club...,,20,287,1130.8710116755135,college
LPT: If you are using Cengage Unlimited for one of your classes you can check out and read textbooks from other subjects,"Thought this was interesting. I have to use Cengage Unlimited since I have 2 classes that use MindTap and I realized that you can look up other textbooks from other majors like Engineering, Marketing, Finance, etc. Essentially you can learn about any subject even if you're not taking the class. I'm currently reading about engineering. Also this could really be helpful if you want to change/learn about other majors. ",32,286,266.2792987125505,college
"If you are feeling lonely at college, the first thing to realize is that, according to this article from the NY Times, you are not alone.",,17,287,764.3698889903283,college
What to do in a free year?,"Today I saw my results and well I failed 2 subjects and I have to repeat the year, however, due to having a GPA higher than a certain number I'm only required to attend the exam, so basically I have 1 year to study 2 subjects and I don't want to waste all that free time, so any suggestions on what to do/learn? ",33,282,319.2601204718097,college
"My professor nicknamed me chief complainer, he really gets me.",,17,289,699.376092694032,college
"I just dropped all my classes, now what?","My midterm grades were Fs and Ds this semester and haven't been improving because I haven't been doing any work. This is my third ""try"" at community college and I've yet to receive more than a 2.0 gpa with my past classes. I just don't have the interest or the ability to keep up. One part of me thinks its my depression, the other thinks it's stubborness because I'm being forced by society to study a subject just because its STEM and will earn me money. I have no clue what I want to do after graduation so that doesn't help either. 

Because I'm dropping, I'll lose my financial aid and will have to pay back tuition with money I don't have. I am really scared and don't know what to do after I work full-time and pay it back. 

Is college just not for me and I should give up or should I plan to go back in the future?  I've been trying to figure out what I want to be since I was 15 years old. I'm 21 now and even after extensive career research I have no path I want to pursue. ",97,291,355.2766019532912,college
The study strategy I used to succeed in Grad school,"A recent grad student, I used the following technique to learn fast and study much more effectively. I wanted to share this strategy with others who are going into exam season :)

The Feynman technique was developed by Richard Feynman, a Nobel prize-winning physicist known as the great explainer. The Feynman technique is a mental model that allows average people with little knowledge in a subject to understand it quickly and retain their newly acquired knowledge. Richard Feynman was not born a genius or even with a higher than average IQ and in fact he was quoted saying “I was just a normal person who studied hard”. While Richard as an individual was average, his ability to clearly explain difficult and complex topics was far beyond average. This learning technique was the foundation for his greatness and something you should learn if you want to become more efficient when gaining knowledge.

In this article, I will explain the Feynman technique, which you can use to:

• Understand ideas that you don’t really “get”
• Remember ideas that you can understand but forget on tests
• Minimize your study time by learning and mastering information in less than 20 minutes and retaining this information for years to come!

Now, let’s look at the four steps of the Feynman Technique:

► Pick a topic and start studying
The first step in this technique is to pick a topic and begin to write down everything you know about the topic. As you continue your studies, you must add the new pieces of knowledge to your page and eventually you will begin to have a good listing of all the ideas that relate to your topic of interest.

► Pretend to teach your topic
It has been said that you don’t really understand a topic until you can teach it. Teaching the material you are trying to learn has two benefits. Firstly, it forces you to simplify the ideas you are trying to comprehend since you cannot relay the concepts to another person word for word. Secondly, when you attempt to relay the newly learned information to another individual you are better able to gauge your level of understanding and find holes in your comprehension. If you do find weaknesses in your understanding you can then move onto step number 3.

► Improve your areas of weakness
Identifying weaknesses in your comprehension is essential to mastering a subject. While teaching the material, jot down your areas of weakness and refer back to your materials to fill in the gaps. Once you have reviewed your shortfalls you can then take another attempt at teaching them until they become engrained in your mind.

► Simply and analogize
To move along your mastering of the new subject, you should be trying to simplify the content you are learning. The more you can distill complex concepts, the easier it will be for you to keep the ideas straight in your mind. Furthermore, if you can keep things simple, you will have an easier time explaining the topic to others as they will lack the insight that you’ve amassed over time. This simplification step allows you to retain the information in the long term as the content will not weigh as heavy in your mind as you will have it understood at the most refined level avoiding the annoyance of learning material only to forget it days later.

Here is a video summary: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gciMMWAR5es


I hope this helps!",11,284,567.3983496384764,college
How many people actually love the academic aspect of college?,"At my school I feel like I'm the only one that loves going to class and learning. I even loved the academic side of High School. (Fuck the social aspect of HS) Of course I enjoy interacting with people and socializing, but I just love sitting in a classroom learning. I'm considering staying in school for my Masters and maybe even my PhD just because I enjoy it that much. The past 2 days classes have been canceled due to snow and since Monday was MLK day I've been out of school all week and it's been so boring! 

Does anyone feel the same way? 

",81,281,638.0637894532913,college
I’m 19 and my parents want me to download life360 (tracking device app),"I KNOW THIS IS LONG BUT PLEASE HELP ME OUT.

I am seriously tired of their bullshit. They don’t let me go out with my friends and now they want to track me even though I am in school? I have a long ass break from 10-2 and I want to hang out with my friends outside of the campus. Is that too much to ask? For me, it’s just an invasion of privacy. This Tuesday, I am planning to go to Disneyland with my friends because all of my classes got cancelled. My question is how do I trick life360? Should I tell my parents no? What would you guys do? I seriously need help. I just don’t like being tracked.

Edit: 
My parents told me that if I don’t download the app, they wouldn’t let me use their car (I pay for the lease every month) to drive to school. Which leaves me to take Uber but they don’t like that idea also. This is just too much for me.

They tell me it’s for safety purposes. It may be true but I feel like it’s more to control me. C’mon I’m in college, I want to go to places without my parents or without them knowing. 

More information:
My parents threaten me (particularly my dad) that if I don’t do the things he say, he’ll kick me out of the house. One instance that I remember was when he asked me if he could borrow 300 USD from me. I said no because I have a lot to pay for (lease of the car, parking on campus, books, etc). He got mad and he spat on my leg. He threatened me that he’ll kick me and crash the car because I didn’t lend him the money he wanted. I already talked to a psychiatrist in my school and she said that if I ever plan to move out, I could email her. ",85,285,341.27419454588386,college
Why do jobs require 4 year degrees?,"For example, couldn't someone start a college that gives bachelor degrees in two years? And would jobs still accept these hypothetical students with their 2-year bachelors degree?",72,283,296.9132107495875,college
"Does anyone feel their brain ""overheating"" and unable to absorb anymore after learning for a couple hours, even if you want to keep studying?","When I'm studying a subject I like I'll read the textbook and make notes for a couple hours straight (with short breaks of course), but after some point I literally cannot continue because I'll space out every 30 seconds and all the text I read will simply not register at all. This happens despite me wanting to continue to learn. The odd thing is that even if I take a 5 or 10 minute break, I'll still come back and feel the same way; it takes a good amount of time for me to be able to learn properly again. 

Anyone else experienced this?",31,280,326.9430834347727,college
Does anyone else run into their professors off campus a lot?,"I routinely run into professors that are my thesis advisors or who  I am using for reccomendations when I am looking like a mess at the grocery store or walking my dog (we live nearby each other I guess)
I always just try to greet them cheerfully and be on my way but it feels awkward especially when it happens a lot
I grew up in a much more strict and respectful academic environment so I know it doesn’t really matter that much and I’m  just being anxious but it still bothers me haha
Do you run into professors often outside of campus? ",65,280,354.3429098236616,college
Back To School Megathread!,"As its the beginning of August, it becomes that time of year where many people start preparing (and perhaps panicking) about moving to college. We expect a decent amount of people coming to our subreddit as college freshman unsure about many aspects of college. We created this thread as a resource for anyone to ask any questions they have about this upcoming college year- both for freshman and returning students. 




In addition to asking your own questions we hope some of the previous questions will be useful in case you had similar concerns. Also for our more ""experienced"" college students- feel free to post any guides or resources for people that may be useful. Sidebar rules still apply so don't use it as an opportunity to spam your own website or blog. 



Feel free to leave feedback about this megathread either in this thread as a comment or PM me if you wish. 

For your convenience here are some useful threads that may be worth checking out before asking a question here. If any guides or other helpful threads are created I may add them below as I see fit. 

[What's something every freshman should experience during their first year](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/6ng19k/whats_something_that_every_freshman_should/)

[What to bring to your dorm](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/4xetni/what_to_bring_with_you_to_your_dorm/)


[How to get good grades](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/6prvn4/i_created_a_google_doc_with_6_pages_of_tips_on/)


Good luck this upcoming semester! ",279,280,806.5793102866246,college
My parents are not helping pay for college?,"I am from a well off family. 
My parents are not paying for college, not helping me buy a car 
I don’t know how to ask them or what to do about it. 
As a senior I feel nervous about how I’ll pay because I am the only kid in the city I live In who’s parents won’t pay for college, no one around me is worried about paying for college so I either get judged or nobody understands...*how do I pay for college?*

Edit: I’ll be 17 when I start college (I will be for a while)

And thank you for all the advice!!",149,281,397.43811815699496,college
Didn't get into major I wanted but unqualified friend did... Don't know what to do,"So I go to a really good public school where we declare/apply for our majors usually the end of second year. I was going to major in Global development Studies, which only has the pre-reqs of Econ 1 or 2, and a ""global"" class. I took Econ and got an A in it, and 2 global classes and also got A's. I worked reallyyy hard for that. I also volunteered a lot with and did a lot of migrant work relating to what I want to do with this major and career. I applied for the major... and was not accepted. The rejection email was an unformatted, quick email that literally said ""Sorry, you weren't accepted to ___ major. Our applicant pool was great and we regret to inform you of this decision."" 
I was devasted, but even more hurt when I found out who did get in. 

A girl I know here had a rough start to college. She had a 1.2 GPA first semester, then a 3.4 GPA 2nd semester, then a 2.2 GPA 3rd semester. We both were in the ECON class 3rd semester and she got an F, despite literally cheating on a lot of assignments. She didnt take Econ 2 and wasnt in ANY clubs or jobs related to this major. Some ppl apply to this major because it has less requirements to complete and that was the reason she did as well. She is rich and her dad is an alumnus who knows 2 directors of the program (she told me this). She applied with a ~2.3 GPA and incomplete PRE REQ to apply and was waitlisted. She told me she's going to get in because she's going to speak to the directors... and then she was accepted. 

THEN, there are study abroad trips related to the major, and she was selected (min 3.0 GPA to even apply) to a major-related program for the summer.


I'm honestly so confused and hurt. I always knew that people in this school had connections to get ahead but this was the major I really wanted and though I know she probably didn't take my spot, I'm really really hurt and I feel disgusted by this school. But my school is known for things like this, connections giving people opportunities over others, and there was a scandal with a ""watch list"" for applicants from big donor families. I don't even know if I should speak to someone at my school about this or not or just take my loss.

EDIT: Reading this back, it sounds really pretentious. I don't think I'm owed a spot and to call her unqualified sounds strange. ",49,280,499.24297926810607,college
"During the midterm, a student awkwardly began berating the professor...","It's definitely that time of year.

Class difficulty ramps up quickly, exams pile up, and grades may or may not be going one's way. This is a particularly hard semester for me, but I wouldn't imagine having an audible breakdown during an exam, let alone directed at the professor.

It was the Differential Equations midterm, and it had a disturbingly low amount of questions. There were only four! But hey, it didn't seem so bad. Two substitution problems, one multi-part slope field analysis problem, a separable population equation problem, and a separable newton's law of cooling problem. I thankfully did the review and practiced the latter two problems, so I wasn't caught off guard by anything.

One of my classmates, however, was.

Each time he went up to the professor for a question, his tone became more distressed and beleaguered. He was speaking fairly loudly by the second (or third) time he approached the teacher. Before long, he began calling the professor dishonest for not making the review like the exam, and explained how much it ""stressed him out and gave him anxiety"". Christ, he was going on and on, and the professor took 100% of it! Every second he spoke was a lethal dose of cringe...I couldn't focus.

Then, when the exam finished, the student *gave even more* to the professor! He kept going on and on...but kudos to my professor for keeping his cool and tolerating that dude's sass.

Why don't people like this save it for the professor's office hours?",49,284,587.2505950088469,college
Not sure why my professor gave me a F on the midterm grades,"Just checked my midterm grades, I got 4 A's and 1 F...

From my calculations, I was suppose to get a D, not an F, in Biology.

We had two exams, I scored 50% and 60%.

We had two homework assignments, I scored 88% and 90%.

Exams are worth 50%, homework is worth 30%.

My weighed grade is suppose to be a 67.75% (D+).

Am I miscalculating something? Would it be appropriate to ask my prof to change my grade? I'm so stressed out :(

EDIT: The remaining 20% is lab exams. (We haven't had any lab exams, yet). ",39,279,210.39189130514308,college
My dorm room in NYC,,39,283,2052.7454213977358,college
Should I get a single dorm room or get a roommate?,"I'm just a teen who will be going to college in a few years. I have possible choices but haven't found what college I want to go to yet. It'll definitely be in-state though.

Anyways, is it better to get a single room or get a roommate? I really would rather have a single room but I don't know if it's more expensive or not. Do you have to pay more for a single? Does financial aid cover it? 

If I have to I'll get a roommate. But being cramped in a tiny room is not something I would enjoy lol.


Edit- I CAN'T AFFORD A SINGLE I WAS JUST ASKING

Edit pt 2: SORRY IF I DIDN'T RESPOND TO YOU THERE ARE OVER 100 RESPONSES. THANKS EVERYONE FOR ALL OF YOUR INPUT. I DIDN'T EXPECT MY POST TO BLOW UP THIS MUCH LOL.",164,277,177.43450704588383,college
"I'm from a higher-income family, but I have to pay for college myself. Where can I find financial aid?","My family makes *just* enough money to not qualify for a ton of financial aid, but still not well-off enough to pay for my education (between $120k and $140k annually). I am stuck paying for it by myself 100%. My #1 choice is Cornell University and I believe I have a good chance of getting in, but my NPC comes back at about $33k. ED apps are due in about two weeks, and I am at a loss. I want to study Agricultural or Environmental Science, and not many colleges have good programs for that, and the ones that do will offer me no financial aid. Any suggestions?

&#x200B;

Edit: Y'all are awesome. Thank you so much for your feedback!",157,276,367.3566135273653,college
At what point do I become worried about my roommate's introverted nature?,"Hello, I am a freshman that just moved into his dorm in college and i love it so far. I do have a concern for my roommate though. Just from texting I knew he was a quiet guy shy guy, which I have problems with myself so I completely get it. He told me more in detail about that when we met, saying how hes very introverted, didnt have plans to party or go to football games etc etc.  and I told him I would give him space if he wanted but if he ever wanted to go to the gym or out somewhere I would be happy to go. 

Its been 3 days now and I'm almost positive he has only left the room once, and that was to take a math placement exam. All hes been doing is sleeping playing video games, watching anime, or doing summer review work(so basically like your average redditor). For meals he has a fridge of stuff and really likes peanut butter sandwiches. He still showers and stuff but I am worried about him. Of course when classes start he will have to get out, so I am not that worried yet, but I want to ask if there is a point where I should try and help him to get out more or just let him be.",52,276,421.0071690829209,college
Is $1k too much to spend on a dorm?,"I went on [dormify.com](https://dormify.com) and got pretty much everything on their dorm checklist and my total ended up being $1240. 

Is this because this is a ""high end"" brand or would it be the same if I used their checklist and bought everything from like target instead?

The only other thing I’d have to buy is a laptop and other hygiene stuff like body wash and stuff.

Edit: y’all made me come to my senses. I won’t be buying from dormify. I’ve realized i could replicate what is on there for a fraction of the price. 
Hehe, but I’ll use my dorm looking like a jail cell to motivate me to work hard so that one day I could go all out and decorate my future apartment/home",84,275,125.02258574958753,college
Back to School Megathread!,"As its the ~~beginning of August~~ start of back to school sales, it becomes that time of year where many people start preparing (and perhaps panicking) about moving to college. We expect a decent amount of people coming to our subreddit as college freshman unsure about many aspects of college. We create this thread every year as a resource for anyone to ask any questions they have about this upcoming college year- both for freshman and returning students.

In addition to asking your own questions we hope some of the previous questions will be useful in case you had similar concerns. Also for our more ""experienced"" college students- feel free to post any guides or resources for people that may be useful. Sidebar rules still apply so don't use it as an opportunity to spam your own website or blog.

Feel free to leave feedback about this megathread either in this thread as a comment or PM me if you wish.

----

**SCHEDULING QUESTIONS** 

Questions pertaining to ""rate my schedule"" or ""am I taking too many credits"" or similar for the upcoming semester should be posted in this thread. Automod has been set up to direct users here for scheduling help. Feel free to give general scheduling advice or answer specific personal questions people have about their schedules. Scheduling questions outside this thread will be removed to maintain high quality posts on the subreddit 

----

For your convenience here are some **useful threads or comments** that may be worth checking out before asking a question here. If I see any super helpful comments posted in this thread I will be adding them to this list. 

[What to Bring to your Dorm](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/4xetni/what_to_bring_with_you_to_your_dorm/)

[College Majors Thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/8q3vfr/college_majors_megathread/)

[What to do your first week on campus](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/92qjfg/back_to_school_megathread/e37qtm5/)

[What would you do differently if you could start college over](https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/93xeva/what_would_you_do_differently_if_you_could_start/)

Good luck this upcoming semester!! 

",644,277,445.98616213847646,college
I found out that I can get zeros on every assignment from here until the end of the semester and still keep the same letter grade.,Should I just consider my semester over for this class? There's no final in this one.,50,277,702.3880950088468,college
"[Serious Question] To all the depressed and self-doubting students, how do you cope when you get a less grade in college/university?",,92,277,282.3247848236616,college
That one insanely smart person in class... How,"Has anyone else experienced this? Where does this person come from and why do they know everything?

Answers all questions right, asks insightful questions that show even greater understanding, uses perfect examples, even gets random trivia correctly a lot.

Honestly it's answering the trivia correctly that really irritates me.  Like maybe he has taken a similar course or really likes the subject... But no he even knows random trivia.

I've decided he's not a robot because he has answered questions incorrectly before, but the professor always says he's close.
",82,270,529.3466713977357,college
There are two types of classes in college,,13,272,673.9344954718098,college
I forgot Spring Break ended a week ago,"I had a very last 3 weeks, and completely forgot Spring break ended last week for me. WTF. I just missed a full week of Uni. Man.",46,270,942.6805718606986,college
Part Two of A Former Student’s Top Tips for College,"Well since my first college tips post blew up so much I thought I would make a second list of college tips from a recent graduate that I thought of the last few day. 

Part 1: https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/cug62h/a_former_students_top_tips_for_college/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app

1. Make Friends with People a Semester or Two Ahead of You

They can give you great advice on what professors to take and can give you their old test/ notes. Also you may be able to get textbooks (PDF or Book Versions) off of them which will save you a ton of money. 


2. Create a LinkedIn Account your Freshman Year and Add as Many Students as You Can Throughout Your Degree

Don’t worry about not having anything to put on there. Just add some class projects that you  have worked on, your high school part time job, and/or some softwares that you have used. The point of the Linked In account college is not to show what you have done but to make connections for later on in your career. Just add as many people as you know on there so when you do have something to show they will see it. There are many people that you will forget about and who will also forget about you so make those everlasting connections on social media early. College students are more likely to add you when they first create a LinkedIn than when they have a job and never check it. I would even say add the people that you are friends with on other social media platforms such as Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, or what ever the kids are using now days. The more other people see you, the more likely they are to remember you when it matters. 
Also take the time to take a good profile picture. You don’t have to be in a suit. All you need is  something professional and you can update the picture as you upgrade your wardrobe. Almost any phone camera can take a decent picture now days so have a buddy take a picture of you on a plain background. What ever you do don’t use a selfie for your LinkedIn Profile pic. 


3. Sit in the Front Row

Sitting in the front row helps you get more involved in the class since you are right up next to the professor. People sitting in the front row are generally more engaged in the class and are willing to talk to you for networking purposes. Also the professor will more likely see your face so they are likely to remember you if you go and talk to them. All the intelligent people I knew in my classes sat in the first two rows so if you wanted to try and make friends in the class this may be a good place to try and make friends. 


4. Always Submit Documents in PDF and not in Word Format. ESPECIALLY RESUMES 

The main reason for this is that with a pdf the format of your document will not get messed up so it will look better. Second reason is the person grading it will not be able to see all the metadata (time document was first created, how long the document was worked on, and when it was last revised). I actually had professors call students out based on their metadata. Third reason is a pdf is a lot easier to work with for a grader when they are attempting to grade it. 

5. Buy a refurbished computer/tablet on amazon instead of buying one new. 

To save a bunch of money I got a refurbished powerful dell computer from amazon that was plenty powerful enough to run my programs. I also got a refurbished tablet so I could take notes on. I would also recommend getting a tablet because it was nice to be able to copy the example from the pdf book or lecture notes directly to my notes and write out the solution. It was also great because I never had to buy another notebook again. 

I hope this helps you out some and if you want me to further explain, just let me know! Also, let me know if you want me to make a part three.",25,271,51.32147463847641,college
"Shared a textbook PDF with class, got reported by one of the students. What should I do?","Found the newest edition of the textbook a week into class, after sharing it I got an email from the prof saying one of the students reported me for sending copyrighted textbook or some shit (maybe because they already bought the $150 textbook??). Will I get in trouble/fined? ",135,275,638.9661505644024,college
What age did you get your undergrad at?,"Hi there! 

&#x200B;

 I'm 22 and about start uni (again). I've been struggling lately with feeling as though I'm ""a step behind."" I'll graduate by the time I'm 24-25. Given the time of year it is, I've been seeing so many pictures of people graduating who are my age or just slightly older and it's been getting to me. I've had some very cool life experiences during the past few years so I don't regret not taking the more traditional path but it makes me self-conscious sometimes to see all my friends graduating while I'm just starting school back up. So, what age did you guys graduate at (undergrad)? Anybody in a similar situation? 

Also, how many people who either are around my age (or when you were in your early 20s) know/knew what it is you wanted to do with your life? Some people seem to know exactly what it is they want to do, and sometimes talking with those kinds of people makes me feel like I have should have already figured that out by now. I do have set interests, passions, and hobbies, I just haven't quite figured out what it is I want to do with them yet. 

&#x200B;

Appreciate any responses!",154,270,97.88730797180975,college
Grad School,"I just wanted to post this because I’m really proud of it, but I got accepted into my (as of a week ago after several rejections) top choice of doctoral programs and holy shit I’m so happy because it means I’ll get to live close to family I only get to see once a year AND be able to be in a great program! I’d love to hear your grad school interview/audition experiences and successes!",16,270,207.0707223236616,college
Group College projects are stupid,Why are so many group projects based off the overall group instead of individual work? Always hate doing all the work while no one else contributes. What is the point of this,69,267,428.8360232495875,college
How I won over $100k in scholarships (by somebody who isn't getting paid to market to you),"Last year, I earned enough private scholarships to completely pay my four year 18k/year tuition plus living expenses - but it was hard because there were barely any genuine resources to help me find them. My guidance counselor also literally told me *not* to apply to a scholarship I ended up winning. It really pisses me off that there are so many shitty blogs and companies trying to make a buck off of students trying to find money for college, so here are my *real* tips for finding scholarships. I've posted this as a comment to a few posts, but hopefully it will reach more people like this.

Finding scholarships:

* Focus on small local scholarships that won't have many applications - these are the scholarships people always say don't even get claimed because nobody applies to them. If you're in/near a major city, there is probably a specific Community Foundation that indexes and manages many of them. Check [this website](http://www.cof.org/community-foundation-locator) to find one for your neighborhood. You can also try just googling ""[My City/State] Scholarships"" and looking through the first 5-10 pages to see what comes up.
* If you are religious, check with your pastor and the local/state/national governing bodies of your religion. Check with the bosses and websites of you and your parent's workplaces. See if the local library has resources. Ask the teachers at your high school.
* Once you begin college, check with your professors and your major's department office. If you attend a research university, grants for independent research projects are another good way to get money for school - check with the Honors College, Office of Undergraduate Research, or similar offices.
* [Cappex](http://www.cappex.com) was great for me because it has the most ways to sort through their thousands of scholarships (as opposed to FastWeb). It also has settings where you can sort by lack of competition and length of applications/essays.
* If you fit the requirements, you can apply. I got a scholarship funded and named after a football tournament even though I'm a girl that's never played sports in her life. Read the fine print before you write things off.
* Don't underestimate scholarships that don't list how much they're worth. I applied to one thinking it'd be like $500 and it turned out to be $12k renewable.
* Apply to as many as possible, but remember that it's not possible to apply to all of them. You only have so much time, so prioritize it wisely and focus on ones you actually have a serious shot at winning. 

Application tips:

* Fill out your FASFA as soon as it opens in january, because lots of other scholarships will ask for it.
* Turn in scholarships early! Begin looking for spring NOW!
* Draft your essays and get *at least* two people at school to look over them. Read it out loud. Make a draft that's longer than the essay supposed to be, and find bad parts to take out after finishing the draft.
* Be sure to include something in your essays about how the career you're going into will help the community. If you're undecided, just pick one to write about because they know that over 50% of kids switch majors anyway. Obviously don't apply for scholarships specifically for a major you have no interest in, but if it you're just deciding between a couple careers write about the one that is most in-tune with the scholarship.
* Begin getting close to at least 3 teachers/coaches/guidance counselors at the beginning of the year for rec letters, or stay in contact with your old ones. When you ask for rec letters, give them a resume (if you don't have a resume yet, make one!) as well as all the information about what the scholarship is for and where they need to send it. Make copies if you can.
* This should go without saying, but make sure your applications are neat! I have terrible handwriting, so I took the printed copies of applications I found and scanned them to my computer so I could type on them. Things like bad handwriting/scratching stuff out, not following basic instructions, forgetting one of the listed items (like a transcript or even a picture), and not spending the extra $1.50 to mail a manilla envelope (folding everything into a tiny envelope) makes a more of a difference than you would think. It shows that you're unprofessional and don't care.

Feel free to ask me any other questions you might have and comment other tips you have to share.",38,268,1530.3639399162541,college
Filling out an application for college. I feel like I got this question wrong,,28,271,1842.0570533421803,college
"Did any of you ever have any separation anxiety when leaving for college? If so, how did you cope with it?","I’ve only got a week to go and I’m starting to feel the whole “wow I’m actually leaving home soon, it’s not just a dream”. I honestly don’t have a hard time leaving my family, but as funny and maybe childish as it seems, I’m having a hard time leaving my cat. Maybe it’s because my family understands and knows why I’m leaving and cats obviously don’t. I feel bad just up and leaving my cat without him knowing what’s going on, especially since we are so close. I’m just wondering if anyone else has experienced it and how they’ve dealt with it.",30,270,68.17312973106901,college
My College Notetaking Guide.,"Hello all,

I am a 3.9 GPA Mechanical Engineering student in my 2nd year, and over the years I have developed some very helpful and efficient methods for notetaking. 

Before I start, I will say that taking notes this way will require slightly more paper be used up, but at the end of the day it's worth it.

1) Write notes in small sections, starting with the main point, then bullet points off of that, then bullet points off of that, etc etc.

2) In between EACH section, leave 2-3 lines of space in between.

3) Leave 5 lines of blank space at the bottom of each page.

This is my technique for building up on notes. Use the format I just described for taking notes during a lecture. Use the lecture as a general introduction of the topic. Now, many teachers have some material that they are basing their teaching off of, whether it be a powerpoint or a textbook. After a lecture is done, take a look through your powerpoint/ textbook, and add information into each small section, where the 2-3 spaces were provided. Use the bottom 5 lines if you run out of room in one of the other sections, or if you would like to add an example problem from homework that you think is important, or that you might forget later.

A couple more tips:

4) Don't be afraid to write little notes to yourself, even if they seem unorthodox. You are your own best communicator.

5) DON'T forget chapter headings. They will help attach the content to your thought processes. This is more crucial than you would think. You are much more likely to remember what ""Fluid Dynamics"" is than ""Chapter 24"".

Overall, big theme here is leaving yourself a lot of space on your first time taking notes. You want to build up on those notes, so instead of just adding extra papers later, which will get very confusing, it's nice to set aside room to work with for later on.",30,269,1010.2387200088468,college
"Help for a ""gifted kid burnout"" who somehow finessed her way into an Ivy League","Hi all. I'm starting at an Ivy League university this fall. The problem is that I'm basically the embodiment of a ""gifted kid burnout"". I never learned how to work or study hard, fall apart the moment something doesn't come easily to me, and in the past few months I've lost 100% of my motivation. Like,I can't even respond to emails on time. It's already screwing up my college life because I'm procrasinating all the pre-freshman stuff I have to do, both academic (registering for courses, taking placement exams, etc.) and personal (getting a job, exercising, getting out more, etc.) How do I stop this before I end up flushing the opportunity of a lifetime down the drain?",49,270,473.12490056440237,college
We should have a monthly/weekly thread for discounted and free stuff available to us college students,,17,268,1017.8411158421801,college
Good luck guys!,To those coming back after the break and/or going into the semesters last couple weeks...good luck on your finals guys!,34,269,690.1433843606986,college
I Just Took My Last Final Ever.,"I'm done. I accepted an amazing job offer two weeks ago and I just took my last final of undergrad. I will be graduating tomorrow with a BSB in Supply Chain Management. It took me 5 years, but it feels so good! ",38,271,888.9631528792172,college
"I’m two years into college and I want to change my major, but I have absolutely no background in the major I want to switch to","Sorry if this is a little long this is a complex issue for me and I need to get it all out. TLDR at the bottom if you’re lazy and don’t want to read the whole thing.

I’m currently a sophomore in college studying chemical engineering because I was told that since I was good at math and science, I should major in ChemE. I believed that for a while. I tried joining clubs and talking to professors, but I every time they got to talking about career paths as a ChemE I always zoned out to think about other things that interested me. I figured that it was just my adhd acting up. That it was my fault I couldn’t pay attention while others were readily listening. So I stuck with the major for two years. It has been affecting my grades (having difficulty finding motivation to study), my ability to interact with others (since I can’t find interest in my own major it’s a little hard to find common ground with people within my major), and most importantly it’s been negatively affecting my mental health (I can’t really see a future for myself within chemical engineering, so I’ve been feeling hopeless and depressed).

Recently I started volunteering in lab within my major (still ChemE) which I thought would inspire a desire to go to grad school since I can’t see what I would enjoy doing with just a bachelor’s degree. Again I fell behind because I couldn’t pay attention. And that resulted in me being afraid to ask questions and I kinda started trying to be as invisible as possible, which I think is largely due to social anxiety and a fear of being to harshly judged.

I started seeing a therapist to deal with the social anxiety, and as a result I’ve cared less about how people see me and have become more active within the lab. the last few days I’ve enjoyed it more because I am much more comfortable asking questions and talking to others within the lab since I am less afraid that they see me as baffoon for not paying attention in the earlier weeks. The only problem is, I still can’t bring myself to read more articles and learn more about about what is going on within the lab. I have a much better understanding of the content (so I have the ability to do the readings), but I just can’t find the motivation to do it.

The therapy also got me thinking about why I am so uncomfortable within my major, and got me started thinking about what I am actually interested in. I feel like I am a creative person, and a lot of the time when I am supposed to be paying attention in class, my mind wanders to how I would make a game out of what we’re learning. I took a intro to C++ class a couple semesters ago and I went out of my way to see how many alternative ways I could solve the homework problems rather than following the instructions, and for the most part the class, outside of the lecture, really clicked within my brain. I was never trying to avoid doing the assignments and was always looking for creative ways to complete them. I didn’t tend to zone out while trying to learn either, like I had a habit of doing with chemical engineering.

I also found myself watching a lot of videos on YouTube a while back about timed game making competitions using coding and was really fascinated by the methods the people used to develop their games. 

What I want to do is switch my major from chemical engineering to computer science and specialize in game development but there are 3 problems:

1. I’m already 2 years into chemical engineering, and it’ll probably take 4 additional years to complete a major in  computer science. That’s a lot of time to spend.

2. I am probably one of the more technologically inept people you’ll meet at the moment. The only coding experience I have is a little bit in my first semester, and the intro to C++ class that I mentioned earlier. I get confused easily when people talk about software and how their computer works but I’m willing to ask questions. I’m working on caring less about how people view me and how judgemental they may be. Since I have goals and aspirations I think approaching professors and people already working within the field will be easier than it was in ChemE, which I had a crippling fear of.

3. I also would be walking into the major with a blank resume. Almost none of the stuff that I have done so far relates to video game design, so I’d imagine getting internships or coops related to my field would be difficult as well.  

I’d imagine that making the transition between the two majors would not be smooth at all. There’s a lot of changes that I’ll have to make, but I honestly think it will be worth it if I can be happy doing the career that I end up in. I’m sure that this is what I want to do, the question is how do I go about this transition? Where do I start? I want to try and build my resume as soon as possible I’ll take any help I can get.

Thank you all very much.

TLDR: Don’t see a future for myself in chemical engineering so I want to switch to video game development, which I do have aspirations in, but I am the most technologically inept person you might meet. Please help me figure out how to make this transition.",60,269,135.14654408292088,college
3 more weeks guys! We can do this!,,62,269,1054.1794838977357,college
This is your friendly reminder to GO GET YOUR FLU SHOT!,"No idea if this is against sub rules or not, but I figure that it's relevant.

You're going to be around hundreds, maybe even thousands, of other people. The flu season is already getting started in many parts of the US.

Flu shots are available now and most insurances will cover it for free.

Go get your goddamn flu shot.",17,267,40.20038667551345,college
"For God's sake, just email your advisor.","There are so many posts saying things like ""I got dropped from my very school specific scholarship - now what?"" and ""will my credits transfer to this school from this school?"" and ""does my schedule sound too hard?""

Yall. Just email your advisor. That's what they're there for and I promise probably know more about your very specific situation than a bunch of strangers online. I'll even type of a template for you but use the resources at your university that your thousands of dollars in tuition is already paying for.  ",29,262,1004.0940325088468,college
Anyone closer to their high school friends than college friends?,"I’m nearing the end of my junior year in college and am about to be a senior (seriously, time flies) and I’ve noticed that although I have a fairly good group of friends in college, I’ve never been able to gain a deeper and more loyal connection to them than as I did with my high school friends.

It makes me sad honestly. I came into college hoping and expecting to foster similar, loyal, and trustful friendships as I did in high school but that hasn’t been the case.

My friends in college are good people and honestly hilarious, but I don’t think they really care about being close friends with me. On the other hand, I’m still very close with my friends from high school and it feels weird to be so accepted in one group, but sort of irrelevant in another.

Anyone have any similar experiences? Advice moving forward?",47,267,549.7443681569949,college
"Went to talk to my professor for office hours, found this on the door",,1,265,2212.2257454718097,college
Anyone else not looking forward to summer break?,"First off, congrats to everybody on making it through the year! This will be my first summer break as a college student, and I've noticed that there is a lot more free-time to be had than in the summer breaks of high school. While college is admittedly stressful at time, and I am glad to have a little time off from it, I am concerned about the possibility of wasting my summer by doing nothing with it. I have a part-time job and am taking an 8-week online class but am worried that it will not be enough. In the past I have had a habit of using my summer breaks as nothing but giant time sinks, and have spent entire days doing nothing but playing video games or watching YouTube, and am scared of falling back into this rut again. These patterns have negatively affected my mental health in the past, so if anyone has any experience in dealing with these problems, feel free to share your methods of having a productive and fun summer! I hope you all have a great time away from college, as well as a well earned rest.",73,263,167.11348852736532,college
My method of studying as a senior biology major!,"Hi everyone, I'm a senior biology major and thought I'd share my studying method to those of you out there who wonder ""how bio majors do it"". For those of you taking biology classes, please don't drown in hopelessness about how hard the exams are or that you're gonna fail. You can do it as long as you're studying often and effectively. I started out as a clueless freshman failing all of her exams, but I survived and only have 2 semesters left!!

Here's my studying method that I've refined over the past few years:

1. **Get enough sleep**. Yes I know it's hard, but do it. There's no sense in going to class if you're so tired that you can't pay attention. If you're not focused then you can't take effective notes, and that will naturally lower your quiz and exam scores later on.
2. **Take effective notes during lecture**. No, don't write down everything the powerpoint slide says word for word if you already have access to that online. Print the powerpoint slides and take them to class (or use a tablet like me), then write notes on them. Prioritize the fine details that your professor is spending a lot of time on. 
3. **Ask to record your professor's lectures**. If they give you permission, record every lecture and sit as close to the front as possible for best recording quality. You can do this with free voice recording apps on any phone or tablet. If you use a tablet to take notes with, find an app that records too. (*This really helps with the next step!*)
4. **Rewrite your notes** **at the end of each week of lecture**. I like to do this in a notebook, but typing is fine too. Use the recordings to help you while you do it, by either listening to the entire recording for each lecture or just using it to revisit a topic you don't completely understand. Since rewriting notes is time consuming, it's a good idea to keep up with it by setting aside time at the end of each week. If you get behind, then it will just feel like a chore.
5. **Make a study guide to prepare for exams**. This doesn't have to be fancy, just use blank pieces of copy paper to rewrite key concepts and definitions from your notes that have a high chance of being on the exam. Focus on what's important and get rid of the fluff. Make it as detailed as you want, depending on how detail-oriented previous quizzes or exams were like. If you have extra time before taking the exam, reread your study guides. It's a good idea to keep a planner and give yourself a fair amount of warning before exams creep up.

This is the basics of what I do. Here's how to modify it for upper-level biology classes:

6. **Write down everything you know about each key concept on blank pieces of paper**. Without using your notes. Trying to write from memory will really tell you how much you actually know, and can help you visualize what you need to work on. This is especially helpful for exams that have all short-answer questions. 

7. **Network with other people in your class**. Oftentimes I had stingy professors that never really helped me when I had questions, so it's really important to ask other people in the class for help when you need it.

\*\* Make sure you're asking a specific question about something, not just ""omg I don't get this at all."" No one can help you if you don't even know what you don't know. If that makes sense?

&#x200B;

TLDR: I'm a senior bio major and this is how I study. Hours of rewriting things! Yes, I have pretty much no social life and all I do is study, but that's what I signed up for. Other bio majors have different methods, but all of us make study guides before every exam, pretty much. 

Feel free to comment or message me with questions :)

&#x200B;",37,260,387.0947269532912,college
Does anyone else just burn through paper when studying math?,"I do so many problems and no matter how efficiently I use the space or how small I write, I go through insane amounts of paper. Is it just me? ",49,260,305.89427556440234,college
"The Trent - ""Out of every type of debt, student loan debt sticks worse than any other. It is notoriously difficult to get student loans to be forgiven, discharged, or cancelled."" - Why is student loan debt handled so much differently from other types of debt?",,19,261,695.936405194032,college
"Finally, some bang for buck!",,3,261,83.1197848236616,college
How do I convince a professor to let me keep the course?,"English isn’t my first language so please bear with me.

On Friday I took my final and then later on found out that the course was forcefully dropped. I studied very hard and so far all I’ve been getting is A+‘s. I talked to the professor today and he was very upset over my bad attendance and he wouldn’t listen to any excuses or apologies i would give. A lot of people got involved and i feel like that just made the situation worse. I’m going again tomorrow. How do I convince him to not make me repeat a course im very likely to get an A+ in? I literally cannot bear the idea of of all the hours ive spent studying going to waste.

P.s: I skip a lot because i have really bad mental health but in my country they don’t believe in that also yes, he does have the authority to not give me a W.",60,260,144.3286274162542,college
why do i stress about my grades so much?,"i got a b+ in one of my gen-eds and ive just been sad and stressed all day yesterday and today. i was really hoping for a 4.0 this semester because all my classes were so easy/intro level. it’s not even that my parents put pressure on me about my grades. it’s just myself. 


it’s a little disheartening because all i got really going for me is my grades.",40,262,287.28333806440236,college
Anyone else hate the NAME of their major?,"I’m majoring in what most people would refer to as Elementary Education. The degree teaches you about child development and learning, and teaches you, well, teaching methods. It certifies you to become an elementary school teacher. My major’s name is Interdisciplinary Studies. Every time I tell someone my major they think I’m majoring in General Studies. 

At my university, a General Studies degree is called Integrative Studies. Apparently every public university in the state calls an Elementary Education major Interdisciplinary Studies. HOWEVER, I’ve looked at a ton of private universities who call it Elementary Education. Tons of out of state schools refer to Interdisciplinary Studies as a General Studies degree. 

I know there are bigger problems in the world but just wanted to see if anyone else hates the name of their major. No offense to General Studies majors...",80,262,383.34778250884676,college
What's something you were supposed to do in college that you never did?,"For me, it was homework. 99% of the time professors would require me to buy a key, at about $150 per course. And that usually involved having to buy the book as well. I literally could not afford to do the HW .",133,257,439.3028403792171,college
"After a very tough three semesters, I finally brought my cumulative GPA to a 3.031.",It feels great to be able to put that on my resume. ,24,260,883.2446575088469,college
Underrated things to take to your dorm?,What’s something most people don’t even think about taking to a dorm?,138,259,433.72287510143934,college
truth about college,,29,259,2235.3805255644024,college
Last semester of college. Should I take a break?,"Hi guys. I am an international business relations student, currently living in Western Europe. Im just about to start my 6th semester, after which I am going to recieve my bachelor's degree. I don't play on continuing my college education after acquiring this degree.

To be completely honest I dread going to school everyday. I made some friends, but most of them have already finished their studies. Most of the courses are purely theoritical so it's the same old bullshit I've been fed for entirety of my education, which doesn't bring any practical knowledge. I study with people who are more than happy to work for some big corporation. That's not me. I'd much rather have my own small business and make most of the decisions myself, rather than have to listen to someone else tell me what to do. Im burned out after studying for the past 15 years of my life. I struggle with some anxiety issues and they intensify drastically due to my studies. It's a vicious cycle of me skipping classes, almost failing, then having to put in extra work to even stay afloat. It's just exhausting. 

Truth is I was never too excited about college, but I listened to my parents and just went with the flow. How was I supposed to decide about my future at 18? I thought it was the right thing to do. Oh yeah also my dad paid quite a lot for my college education so I feel like I have an obligation to actually finish it.

 I know this may seem really dumb but i'm thinking about taking a break from college right now before the last semester. There's only one big obstacle - my dad. As I said he paid for my education and he wants me to finish it, which is understandable. He would also LOVE for me to have a nice paying office job, which I just dread even imagining. His vision and mine of my future are not cohesive at all. He wants me to play it safe and not risk losing any money opening businesses. Im actually starting one next week, but I don't really talk about this with him since he gets butthurt about it. My mom is much more supportive when it comes to starting businesses since she owns one herself. I wanna try working different jobs and travel, but college is just too draining for me. 

What do I do? Should I just make a deal with my dad to finish it next year? Should I finish this last semester now? I need different perspectives. Any help will be greatly appreciated.",54,257,228.26216908292085,college
Anyone else sleeping 11+ hours a day during the summer?,I can't tell if my body is trying to make up for all the sleep I lost during the school year or if I'm just being lazy af lol,72,258,451.10351167551346,college
Anybody else have friends but no core friend group in college?,"I used to have a solid friend group freshman year that I could always rely on to do things with. Now that I'm a sophomore, it seems like everyone has separated and is doing their own thing. I've only stayed close friends with 3 people from that group, who are my roommates now. However, I only actually ever do things/hang out on weekends with one of them, because the other two are always busy/doing their own thing. They only hang out with us when it's convenient for them. I've tried reaching out to some of my old freshman friends, but most of them have their own friend groups now and those that don't never want to go out on weekends. I'm grateful that I have a best friend who I can count on for anything, but on days when she's busy/not here I can't help but miss that old friend group. My best friend is perfectly content with only having one close friend (me) by the way, and says she's not really interested in making new friends, so working on it together isn't really an option. I'm currently trying to make new friends but haven't succeeded yet. And even if I do manage to make a new friend, it still won't be the same as having that dependable core friend group. Anybody else here who was in the same boat? What did you do about it? ",48,259,572.2722038051431,college
What are the best study habits you’ve picked up over the years?,,61,254,283.88027093477274,college
First rejection letter of the year. Hopefully the last. Sophomore here,,65,257,387.87690287921714,college
How to survive 3 hours long class.,"Well, more like 2:45. But the point still stand. I have the attention span of a dead fish in the best scenario on this planet. And we only have 1 break of 15 minutes, which is fairly usual. 

However by the second hour, my brain has turned to mush and I'm dying inside. 

How can I be able to listen intently at the end of the class? What are your tricks to stay alert? ",109,254,390.21514361995787,college
I was puzzled when my roommate left the dorm with a SH and O' sticky note... Later I found ...,,7,260,1877.0130950088467,college
Professor dismissing entire class over a few people talking?,"We were in class reviewing a test that most of the class had done rather poorly on. 

&#x200B;

We had split off into groups (which we do nearly every day) and then the professor stopped us and began to talk about what we could do to improve our scores in the future. However, there were two people in one group talking in the back. She stopped talking and said that she will not  bother talking over us and dismissed us all despite only being halfway through class, then let us know we were falling behind, and that we would meet again next time to start the next chapter.

&#x200B;

I'm kind of in shock. My grade is now hinging on the behavior of a few bad eggs in class. She hadn't even finished her review despite that every other class got this review. Is this standard procedure? Should I email her about it expressing my concerns or is this a bad idea?",29,257,244.0949237125505,college
What are some ways I can make more money in college that doesn't involve cheating on my boyfriend or drugs?,I already have a job but i'm on a max 20 hours a week and it's a little more than minimum wage. Anyone have advice? ,149,256,556.9934885273652,college
Who here had a much harder time making friends in college than in high school?,"I graduated years ago, and I did have trouble making friends. If you had the same problem, were you able to handle that? We couldn't keep up with each others' schedules, and despite the university having roughly 20k students, the classes themselves that I took were mostly tiny. And it was hard to relate to those students. Plus I'd rather go bowling, eat out go to the movies or play Street Fighter at someone's home than go to bars or go clubbing which was promoted a lot in college.

Mostly, though, maybe also because I commuted to college. I didn't live in a college town. This was my hometown growing up so I took the city train every day and it felt more like high school in that way. Except for the part where I made many friends. I felt more connected to people in HS. Unfortunately it did fuck up my networking opportunities for my career.",53,252,564.2453866755135,college
"If you could do over your freshman year in college, what would you have done differently?",What advice would you give to yourself as an incoming freshman?  What would you have done the same vs differently?,136,252,461.5838936199579,college
Graduating,Holy shit I’m graduating. Any other seniors freaking out? It feels like these four years happened so fast. ,48,253,537.3851320458838,college
My professor left this in the assignment prompt.,,16,251,630.6413357495875,college
I work for parking and I had a good laugh seeing these on windshields all over campus yesterday. Thought r/college would enjoy.,,8,252,2024.2154213977358,college
How do you guys deal with the waiting period before receiving your final grades?,I feel so nervous and I'm checking multiple times a day. How do you guys deal?,80,252,155.94057186069864,college
"""I'm going to cook all the time when I'm off campus.""",,7,253,313.04045611995787,college
Would it be weird to email my professor about this?,"So in class today, our professor told us we’re ending as early as possible because her brother is dying in the hospital. At one point while she was teaching she just stopped talking and started to get teary. She’s one of my favorite teachers, I just wanted to email her and give her my best wishes for her and her family. She’s really chill so I don’t think it would bother her but I don’t know. ",18,251,576.2230487125505,college
Roommates,"I'm definitely overthinking this, but for people who didn't request a friend as a roommate, is it as awkward as I'm imagining when you first contact them? What am I supposed to say to some total stranger without being weird or appearing too forward?",72,251,85.96980797180974,college
Do College grades even matter?,"I was planning to go to a top college and just settle for like a 3.0, while taking internships on the side. Recently I’ve heard that college grades can even come up in job applications, is that true? Im guessing it’s due to your field and I plan to enter Business Management or Entrepreneurship next year. ",64,251,334.45123158292085,college
"Let's start a thread for everything to consider bringing to a college dorm room, from the small necessities to everything else!","From the forgetful incoming freshman to the seasoned upperclassmen, we can all benefit from some pointers on how to make dorm life easier.",85,252,821.835155194032,college
I should really do some homework. Dove Chocolate:,,1,251,978.892018619958,college
I’m just stupid and don’t understand paying for college,"I have a bill that is due August 2nd. I think it’s about $6,000.....that’s just tuition when do I pay for housing? Anyway. I did my FAFSA and I got $2,000 federal loan and $10,000 federal parent loan. I thought you just went to the bank, told them you need X amount of money, they pay it, and years later you pay them back??? Well now I have two different types of loans. What is a parent loan? Can I use both of these loans and then not have to worry about going to the bank? How do I even do all of this? My parents and siblings never went to college nor are they even trying to help and I’m so confused and I talked to a financial counselor at my college and they were no help they just kept talking as if my parents went to college and know what to do and can just handle this or something",36,248,97.25270149032826,college
"Financial Aid didn't get applied to bill, office closed until after due date?","Hey guys. I got a bill for $27k for the fall semester of 2019. I got a $26.4k in financial aid (in letter) so that reduces my bill payment to $600. However, my university didn't apply any financial aid  to the bill and their office is closed until way past the due date. If I end up missing the payment, I have to hand in another $400 after. I clearly can't pay $27k. Should I just pay the $600, assuming they will take it off the financial aid later?


UPDATE!! I’m so dumb. Kinda. Turns out that I didn’t ACCEPT the financial aid offer. If you are awarded financial aid, you can either accept or decline. I didn’t accept/decline, so it went off as pending and I didn’t get the financial aid. The “kinda” part is that I needed someone else to find the page for me (I hired a guy to do the financial aid stuff for me). I still can’t find it myself. I checked the email award letter, I checked the financial aid website that describes my exact grants and loans I’m getting and such, but the other guy found it for me. I assumed that the financial aid would be placed a little later after I received my bill because it takes some time for the guys in the financial aid office to finalize everything. Oops.

TLDR; My bill didn’t get reduced by the financial aid award (helps a LOT), turns out I didn’t accept award letter.",27,251,104.30681028662457,college
I forgot about my final exam,"It's for an online class, and I completely forgot about it until about twenty minutes ago, which by that time it was already ten minutes overdue. Now it won't let me take the test. It's too late. I sent an email to my professor begging her to extend the deadline. I don't know if she will or not. Will keep you posted. Pray for me.",48,247,535.7630834347727,college
What can I do if my professor is never there?,"He has missed/is planning to miss two weeks of a 9 week course. The curriculum is at a level of middle school, he just spits out basic history facts. I'm frustrated and want a fucking refund lmao",52,247,128.98097695329122,college
I've gotten every single letter grade :),"So I was just reviewing my transcript as I will soon be graduating and I realized that I've gotten all grades from an F to an A+. Even a W (withdrawn) haha.

I mean I might not have a straight-A transcript, but I've managed to complete something! Gotta catch 'em all right? 😂",16,248,935.1261158421801,college
Can I get in trouble for not staying in my dorm?,"I know this answer may vary between colleges, but I haven't been able to find any answers on the schools website and my college's subreddit is dead.

Basically my school has a pretty strict ""freshmen must live on campus"" rule with very few exceptions, and I meet none of those exceptions. However, my longtime boyfriend, soon to be fiance, lives about 5 miles from the school, and for obvious reasons I'd rather stay with him most nights. Though I still plan on eating a decent bit at the school and I will stay in my dorm occasionally, like if I have to stay up studying and take a test in the morning. But my question still stands, is there any way I can get in trouble if I'm very seldomly spending time in my dorm?",64,248,74.8922848236616,college
Anyone living on campus at a “commuter school”?,"I just got accepted to my dad’s alma mater, a big public university in my state’s largest city. It’s far enough away from my parents’ house that commuting would be intolerable, so hello dorms. My concern is that this is generally a commuter school. Most of the students live in the city; I’m pretty sure only about 20% of students live on campus. My dad lived in the dorms for a short period of time. He said it was more difficult to make friends than it would be at a more traditional university, since everyone lived scattered throughout the city, but there was a nice sense of close-knit community amongst the couple thousand dorm residents. Of course, that was several decades ago. Anyone have a similar, more recent story? What’s it like living on campus at a commuter school? Thanks in advance!",62,245,331.3330718606986,college
How to not be depressed in college,"Don’t know if this is the appropriate thread. So I’m going into junior year (whew how time flies) and I don’t even remember the past two years. It’s been the worst experience and I thought college was supposed to be the best 4 years of your life. :/ it’s like everything has gone wrong. I came in confused because high school was very traumatic for me, so I didn’t really know/have time to think of what to major in. I came in undeclared and then switched to poli sci, then nursing, then now biology. anyway I love bio but I don’t really know what to do with it after and I’m not into going premed. I’m so scared for my future too. I came in with zero friends and even know I don’t really have friends. Only people I met and then once the semester ended we never saw each other again. I can’t seem to get over guy from my past even though it’s been TWO years. It’s even worse now, I got really depressed this semester and as a result failed 3 finals and got two C’s :/ and I lost my scholarship due to this. Applied for 6 internships and was ghosted after my interview. Every time I try to get involved, join a club, or do research It never works out. all I did was commute 45 minutes, skip class, spend hours in the library on my phone because I couldn’t study, and cry in my car, just to do it all the next day. There’s no excitement or motivation at all and it kind of made me feel like I was going insane. I feel like a bum who has nothing going for her. How do I get out of this mindset? What should I do?",34,247,158.57477324958754,college
"Suggestion: If living in a dorm with school provided mattresses, usually a mattress topper is a good thing to buy. They are a bit expensive but worth it for a good sleep.",,35,247,789.4116945458838,college
Just a heads up to everyone upon the success stories: failure is okay. You will be okay.,"I've been seeing a lot of posts of people who have had great success with their semester/quarter, and I want this post to serve as a reminder to those who may not be doing as well that EVERYTHING WILL BE OKAY.

Failure is a huge part of learning, whether it be the 1st or 2nd or 5th time you're taking a class. Learn from your mistakes, and go at it again with more rigor and discipline than you did the first or second or 4th time you've done in the past.

You can do this.

EDIT: I think I failed 2 out of my 3 finals but at least my mental health is thriving and I am DONE with the semester lol",28,243,161.37162510143938,college
"If you show up to the dining hall for Saturday breakfast and you're dressed up ready to start your day, you are a nutcase and there is literally no way I can trust you.",,55,247,628.2858149162543,college
"Everybody knows college students are tired, why don't colleges have places to lie down?","When you're waiting in the library or the food court or some common social place for your next class that might be hours away, and you're exhausted, you're bound to want to fall asleep. Why aren't there places to do this?!?!? Why did beds stop being a thing after preschool? We all need to take care of ourselves. Offices like google have places to take naps, it's not childish- it's smart and healthy. The concept seems so wrong yet I want it so bad. People will fall asleep anyway, they fall asleep in chairs, at tables or classes. Why not have beds?!?! Or mats, or a room or areas to lie down in. A relaxation room. It makes so much sense.

It's just a taboo thing, yet I'm sure it's acceptable in other places.",95,241,629.0723079718098,college
This Semester I Learned...,"What are some tips from this semester you'd want to share to other struggling college kiddos fighting for a will to live (and graduate)?

Can range from dating to studying to partying 

Update: I know this post is getting a lot of traction, but feel free to continue adding because I (and I'm sure others) are still reading and the more the merrier",115,242,662.1996227866246,college
"Stay strong, fellow students, against the evil forces of the common cold, viruses, and infections. 'Tis the season.",,42,241,712.8515093606986,college
LPT: Use this method in Chrome to get around RateMyProfessors.com's new annoying request to disable your ad-blocker,,30,242,985.2231644532911,college
Need advice on how to get my roommates to dispose of food properly without sounding like an asshole,"Two of my roommates have a tendency to dump food scraps from their plates (rice, pasta, bits of onion, etc) in the sink instead of the rubbish bin when they wash their dishes which makes it rather unpleasant for anybody else to try do their dishes. One of them makes a lot of oily and strong smelling food every day (which I would have absolutely no problem with were it disposed of properly) and often just tips out the oil from the pan straight into the sink all over the other dishes and the dishbrush and everything and it's getting a little tedious having to wash oily shit and rice out of the dishbrush before I can wash my dishes every single day. Today she tipped at least a quarter of a cup of rice straight into the sink and didn't even attempt to get rid of it, completely clogging the drain. What can I do to make it stop without seeming like an intolerant asshole?",25,243,229.39944917551344,college
I am weird for not wanting the party life in college?,"I feel very left out when all my roommates have large parties and I sit in my room and do HW instead , they always tell me i should be hooking up with girls and drinking as this is the best time in my life to do it. Is this true? I am focused on school but I dont want to regret not going after girls if its all downhill after college. 

&#x200B;

Personal problem im having so any advice would be nice :)",139,241,416.852504731069,college
Me at the beginning of the semester vs. me at the end of the semester,,11,244,672.7518913051431,college
"Last semester was my hardest semester of college. This semester will be my last before graduation. If you're reading this and if you're a senior, I just wanna say I wish you the best of luck. Go slay your last term and finish strong!",,17,239,274.27240056440235,college
How's my schedule look?,,112,236,438.0704561199579,college
Weird issue with school I've struggled with my whole life...wanted to know if anyone else relates,"I'm not even sure how to word this, normally it's just a weird feeling in my mind

I don't like the idea of putting something I care about into my schoolwork. 

For example, one time in Spanish in high school we had to make a family tree diagram. I felt it was a really dumb assignment, and I felt like I was doing something horrible, using the names and faces of my ancestors for some pointless homework. 

Or a few weeks back, I had to write a paper, and to make a point I talked about a hero of mine and how much he meant to me. It felt so...gross. They were real feelings but it just felt wrong using them for schoolwork. 

I feel like some things should be cherished and sacrosanct, too important to bastardize for something trivial. 

Does this make any sense at all? or am i just a total freak",30,237,560.136092694032,college
"Is 120k of student loan manageable with a salary of 53k in Texas, USA?"," Hello, thank you for taking your time to give your feedback and insight! Any and all feedback are welcomed. I am considering a job as a school teacher in Texas, USA, and the starting salary is 53k. I would take out 120k of student loan for 2 years of community college and 2 years of university. This is based on out of state tuition, and before any scholarships. Potentially, after scholarships, maybe I would have to take around 110k instead of 120k. If I left out any crucial information, please mention it below! Thank you!

UPDATE: I currently live in South Carolina, and the only reason why I'd go to college in Texas is because my parents and siblings are moving there next year. Also, THANK YOU to EVERYONE for their strong and in-depth feedback. I honestly feel like I'd be better off going to school in SC because I have 2 years of community college for free because of my GPA, and then I'd also just pay in-state tuition for 2 years of university afterward. The thing is, my parents feel strongly that I should move with them to Texas to attend school even if the price is more than double for the same result. I don't know how else I can convince them or show them that I can be an independent individual for the next 4 years while they move to Texas.",89,242,115.52507417551345,college
"Community college students who are transferring to 4-year programs, what are your biggest concerns?","For people who are transferring from a community college to a 4-year university in the fall, what are your biggest concerns? 

&#x200B;

If you've transferred in the past, what are the main things to be aware of?",97,240,136.04591908292085,college
Are breaks a struggle for anyone else?,"I am constantly in school mode. It doesn’t matter if it’s winter break, spring break, or summer break. I will literally think there is something that I need to be doing or something that’s due 24’7.  Sometimes I wish I could just relax and do nothing without a care in the world. But I have academics drilled into my head all the time. ",47,239,226.0497501014394,college
Tips for College Freshmen,"I wrote this as a comment in someone's post but decided to make it my own. Basic but great tips for College Freshmen, or College students in general.

1. Don't take classes lightly just because you're a freshman, study and go to class. Don't listen to those who are always acting cool and bragging because they skipped class.

2. If your professor assigns homework, and it isn't graded, do all that homework and make sure you do it all right. Those questions will 9/10 times appear on your exams and/or quizzes.

3. Take breaks when studying, not 80 hour breaks, but reasonable breaks for long study hours.

4. Don't, Don't DONT DONT DONT DONT DONT Procrastinate, they say money is the root of all evil, in college, procrastination is the root of all evil. If you have an exam in 2 weeks, plan for it, study slow, take your time, 3 days before review, day before review, and then take the exam. Don't wait till its 8pm on Sunday while you're watching Friends on Netflix and still considering studying for your 8:30am class. Don't do this, trust me, trust me, trust me, it hurts and it hurts alot when you knew you had the chance but wasted it.

5. If your stuck, ask for help.

6. Make study groups, join study groups, start a study group.

7. Don't sleep on trying to get internships early and getting your game on, you will look way way way better than all the current freshmen with you. Just try, you won't lose anything. Go to career fairs, network with people there, even if you don't want an internship right now try to get some companies interested in you, show that you're serious and of value.

8. Don't be the that person who goes all 4 years not socializing or talking to anyone, it hurts. Join clubs ( I didnt join clubs even though I wanted to so badly, I'm an idiot for not doing so, I completely regret it, well I still can tbh lol ) You'll make friends, gain experience while having fun, be involved, and enjoying your time. Note that clubs are not your only option, talk to random people on campus, people in class, go to school events, have lunch with a stranger (who knows he might be into all the weird any crazy stuff you're into), if you can, try to join a sport, go to school games, etc. 
My freshman year I was sick of keeping myself in my comfort zone and literally walked around campus talking to completely random people I have never met or talked to before in my life. I would ask someone where the library was just to start up a conversation, when it was in clear sight in front of both of us, lol.

9. Get some part-time job, it'll teach you responsibility, I'm still in college and I started working more this year and it is indirectly helping me plan and implement things, and manage my time. Preferably a job or volunteering related to your major, paid or unpaid the experience and responsibility is way more valuable than the money.

10. Stay physically healthy, go to the gym, workout, run, exercise,sweat, swim, this will keep your body and mind healthy. 2 birds with 1 stone, don't miss.

10. Have fun, its college, if you don't feel like going to parties you don't have to. I never went to a college party, currently a Junior, and don't really intend on doing so. Theres so much more you can do, plan a guys or girls night, movie night, go skiing, game night, go out to NYC, see if any cool events are going on on campus, play ball at the gym, swim, go bike riding, explore campus (this is actually fun to do alone, you'd be surprised with what you can find) 

Overall Story: Don't waste College, have fun, enjoy your time, use it wisely (USE YOUR TIME WISELY, WISE-LY, W I S E L Y)

**People are talking in the comments and saying how I shouldn't give advice because I don't go to college parties and that I'm not implementing these because i don't go to college parties. It was my decision whether or not to go to parties, I have friends who go to parties and have no problem with them. I was friends with the DJ at the parties and still didn't go. I was childhood friends and still currently am friends with one of the frat leads, but I still didn't go to party. I simply don't want to go to one and prefer having fun in different ways. Having ""fun"" doesn't only mean going to a party, there's much more you can do. If you feel like going to a party, go ahead, if that's what you like and enjoy, then do it. If you don't, there's nothing wrong with that too.**

",45,241,696.6978288051431,college
"Been worried about getting a GPA sub-3.0 this semester, but I checked my final grades and I finished the semester with a 3.2!!","I know it isn't the greatest, but since I had so much setbacks and problems holding me from being the best that I can, I'm really proud of this!! I'm sorry to brag, but I'm just very happy!!
",15,236,1031.0722848236617,college
"Chinese Student are selling SAT answer to cheat, this is how.","Ok, First, I want to let you know that I am a Chinese student, I know all this information from the people around me, these friends of mine. I know personality, people who are selling these answers to my other friends. English is my second language, If you see me making some grammar mistakes, plz just keep that in mind.

I don’t even think this is possible until a few months ago, When I joking ask how can I improve my SAT score to one of my friends on WeChat, She just told me that I can buy answer from her. Of course, I was like that is not possible, But she told me that She was serious, and she only sells this answer for the people that are “in need”. Then she shows me some screenshot images of her that making deal with other people on SAT answers. I still don’t believe it, not people this close to me at least. So I ask one of her friends, and he said he don’t know anything about it. I guess her friend ask her about it, but now She is really mad at me that I tell other people about it. 

I am disgusted, And I did my research, and this is how they did it: They are taking advantage of the US time zone. In Los Angeles, time is always a few hours short than say New York, but SAT always started at the same time, around 8:00. That means when people in New York finished Section 1, People in LA didn’t even start the test yet. So people in New York just sneak a note card or something with them to copy all the answers, and during the first break, they go to the restroom and send the answers with the Phone that they sneak with them. People in LA usually get their answers around 6-7 in the morning. You might think that the answer must be different between New York and LA, but guess what, the entire US are the same, this is so easy to fix and why didn’t the College board fix it is beyond me.

If this is news to you, you might be shocked, and I was as shocked as you are. There are organizations doing these dirty work. I am Sorry, I don’t think this is fair for anyone…...and I think people from my culture are better than this…... I did some research on the internet, and I didn’t find anything about this situation.

I know good people, hard working people who didn’t get the college they want to go, but some dawdler, who won’t come to school when there is a test, but have friends help them when making it up, and get a high score on it. I consider myself pretty hardworking person, I teach myself about computer hardware, networking, I help my guardian in his company with some IT work, I learn Linux myself, even made an raspberry pi VPN server so that I can bypass school network’s firewall, And well I didn’t get into the college I want to go, Yet my friend who came to high school in Junior year from China, and got his grade transferred got in. Here is the thing, Because Chinese college doesn’t care about the grade, they just care about the Gao-Kao (like a Chinese SAT) score, if you get a good score on this test, you get in good college. If not, you screwed. So the High school in China you can actually pay some money and let the school change the grade, which can be transferred to the US. I actually have a friend in China did exactly that and now studying in England.

Don’t get me wrong, I love this Country, that is the reason I come here in the first place, But I think the Education System is not good, and college is doing a terrible job. And it can be fixed.

",29,239,198.06344223106902,college
Do you recommend taking 12 or 15 credits a semester?,"Hello,

As I finalize my schedule for the Spring, I am curious as to how many credits other students normally take in a semester.

I am a second semester Sophomore and I generally take 12 credits (4 classes) per semester. I find that if I take more than that I cannot give all my courses the necessary attention that is required and I become even more stressed and overwhelmed. However, I do realize that this will probably extend my graduation date beyond 4 years. I am considering taking 15 credits (5 classes) next semester, but I am hesitant.

How many credits do you normally take in a semester? Do you recommend taking fewer credits to make the workload more manageable or more credits to graduate on time?",160,240,284.35542139773565,college
Just a reminer to the new HS grads to avoid the scam that is Cutco,,48,237,906.1106760273653,college
I feel like I’ve messed up any chance I have of going to college and then eventually going to get school.,"Fair warning this is very long and I’m looking to get some advice on what I should do. Thanks in advance! 

I started out in college at a technical school because I lacked one math credit to get into a 4 year college. My plan was to go that technical school for a year and then transfer to a 4 year college with the plan of majoring in biology or pre-vet. About 2 months into the courses I fell into a deep hole of depression and I ended up having to withdraw because I ended up in the hospital for 2 weeks. After that I decided I wouldn’t go back to school right away and I got a job. Around January of 2018 I decided that I wanted to go back to school but this time I wanted to go to art school. I thought that maybe I couldn’t do normal school so maybe I’ll try this. So I applied to my dream school and a few months later I found out I go accepted. So I started at that school in the fall of 2018 and I did really well! I got an honors scholarship and my parents were really proud of me and things were great. So I go back to school after winter break and I start out okay but I really start to slip because of depression. I end up failing all 3 classes because of it and I lose my scholarship. My parents were very upset with me and really disappointed. After spring break I go back for spring quarter and once again I slip and I end up failing two classes and passing one but with a “D”.  Towards the end of spring quarter I finally got on a medication that really worked for me and I really tried my hardest to bring my grades up but it was too close to the end of the quarter and I didn’t have enough time. 

As I stated I have depression and I really struggle with motivation. But I really think I struggle so much with motivation because I haven’t found my “passion” yet. But over this summer I started working at a doggy daycare and boarding place and it has really brought out my passion for not just dogs but animals in general. The daycare place I work at has a vets office in it and I spend a lot of time talking to them and asking questions. It really gets me feeling excited. So I really am thinking about going to school to become a veterinarian. I know vet school is highly competitive and hard to get into. But I feel that I would have the motivation now to know that I could be working with animals every day and helping them. 

My problem right now is even getting into a 4 year college. I’m not really sure where to start. My grades are terrible and the credits I have from my college right now wouldn’t transfer. So it would be like I am starting college all over again. And if I used my credits from high school I’m still missing one math credit. I just don’t know what to do and any words of advice would help. I feel like I’ve really messed things up for myself and I know my parents wouldn’t be supportive of this because they don’t believe in me at all. 

Thank you for any advice you may have. I really appreciate it!",22,236,112.17740056440235,college
My lack of education is keeping me out of college,"I'm 26. I graduated high school in 2010 and I've struggled with math my entire life. I mean that as literal as possible, I was put into remedial math classes around 4th grade and that continued until I graduated high school. Teachers in elementary tried to teach me math but my brain and body would literally shut down and I would cry and refuse to do anything. From then on, my remedial teachers taught me little math and passed me though their classes. I was a D student, and my grades were curved (somehow??) and I was able to graduate on time despite never doing my work or understanding anything to do with math. My knowledge stops at multiplication tables. 

&#x200B;

A year ago when I first got the idea to attend university, I attempted to use Khan Academy to educate me in math so that I could pass the SAT and have a shot at a low ranking university. That plan failed, twice. I got a 960 on the SAT my first attempt, and my second attempt as well. At the time I hadn't realized how much math I didn't know.

&#x200B;

I wanted to learn Chinese History and a wide array of languages. I've studied language on Duolingo and I think I've found my knack. Language, reading, and writing come easy to me. I have very little issue remembering the syntax of a language, characters, tone, pronunciation, it's something I truly love and have loved for a long time, but didn't really realize the full breadth of it until a year ago. 

&#x200B;

I have a full time job and money is always tight. All my self-education has come in my off time, provided I don't have other responsibilities to attend to and that I don't lose spirit. I so desperately want to become a full time student at a university and live off loans so that I can be a \*real\* student. I hate having a meaningless full time job that just allows me to survive. I want to become a student so I can truly devote 90% of my time to my language and cultural studies. One day I plan to teach what I've learned, with being an english teacher or a translator as a fall back. I'm interested in the idea of perusing a PhD, or at least a masters in my major, with an array of languages at my back. I've explored many job opportunities for linguists, translators, cultural experts, etc. and I have a knack for teaching. I'm often asked by ESL people at work how something would sound in english, or the proper syntax of a sentence. While I'm not a translator, I can generally understand the meaning they're trying to convey in their sentence. I also have taught people certain aspects of judo (a martial art/olympic sport), IT knowledge, gym stuff, english, and philosophical topics. So I know that teaching is in my heart. 

&#x200B;

I'm realizing this dream has become increasingly difficult, this entire year has been mired by set back; I try something, fail, realize I'm way in over my head, and then I'm knocked back 10 paces. I've slowly learned discipline and perseverance, and while not perfect, I'm better off than I was a year ago, or two years ago. I know to keep trying. But with my education it feels so different, it truly feels like I'm in the negative. 

&#x200B;

My plan is to enter into a community college (Austin Community College), earn enough credits to transfer to University of Houston (I was rejected from UH, but I've been told the transfer requirements), and then study abroad. I even have my sights set on the National University of Singapore, which from what I've heard from many sources, is a great country to study and live in. I've never been outside of my state so the idea of studying abroad and travelling is very appealing to me and I think a fresh restart from this monotony of a life I currently live would allow me to truly recognize my linguistic and educational potential. 

&#x200B;

But this all seems impossible from where I stand. My lack of math has shocked those kind enough to tutor me, and even now as I write this I'm studying number lines, basic algebra, and multiplication tables, all so that I can APPLY for community college. I learned that as an adult my math anxiety did not vanish. I had a mental break down in public, three times, when a friend was tutoring me. I was fighting to hold back the tears, and my mind reverted to a very anxious and afraid state, I was almost like a scared child.

&#x200B;

 If I don't pass the community college's math assessment test, I'll be in remedial/high school math where I wont earn college credits for transfer, and my journey to university will be much longer, which I'm not sure will last. My job pays enough to survive but we all could lose our work over night. It's a full time gig, and I don't know how much I can mentally last at that place. I've already been there for almost 3 years. 

&#x200B;

 That's why I'm so nervous about time, I want to be in uni yesterday so I don't have to worry about this crap. If my journey to uni takes longer, if i have to spend more time at community college while having a full time job.... I just don't know if its possible. My morale is very low because of my life situation and my job, and I think being a full time student is just what I need. 

&#x200B;

So I want to know from anyone who reads this: is there another way? Can I succeed without learning an impossible amount of math? Or am I truly screwed? What alternatives do I have? Is it better to study a ton of math on my own or just accept the fact I'll be in remedial math classes at community college, thus taking longer to get to uni? (I'm not getting any younger...) Are there foreign universities in which I could study my major, the languages I want, while receiving little to no math courses? Math is entirely irrelevant to my major and I know enough to handle money and basic life things. It makes me so mad my education is stymied because I don't know very complex algebraic formula. 

&#x200B;

Thanks for taking the time to read this. I feel lost, dejected, and out matched. I've struggled with math and emotional issues my entire life and it's biting me in the ass as an adult. 

Edit: Wow I got a lot of replies. A lot of it is good information, but it’s a lot to sift through. I’m still catching up on some of it and I’ll reply. I think the best course of action for me might be to take the math assessment and just accept what classes they place me in, remedial or otherwise. I’ll look into seeing some kind of doctor for ADD/ADHD or some kind of math disorder. I’m reluctant to go that route but I’m not closed off to it. I won’t take ritalin again, I have nothing but bad memories of the effects of that medicine, and my parents did not like putting me on it. ",83,238,289.1131413051431,college
Why do I always feel like I do terrible on tests and exams?,"After exams and tests I always feel like I failed and I’m ready to drop out, but I always end up doing fine. Anyone else like this lol",32,238,393.94190287921714,college
A look inside my dorm at the University of Florida!,,18,236,771.9289167681061,college
Anyone else really sad to be home for the summer?,"Title. Being home has made me incredibly anxious, and frankly, depressed. It’s draining not having anything to do or any friends to hang with. Feels like everything that was going good in my life was back in my college town.",34,236,160.97885889773568,college
Graduating today. My grad cap has a secret message.,,10,236,884.4136968606986,college
How to study for college properly?,"I was never a stickler for studying, and being accepted into college means that I do need to learn how to properly study. I've never created any studying habits, other then removing electronics away. Even I  get side tracked by something. 

How do you guys go about studying and focusing on learning material? 

",45,235,475.2989746384764,college
Failed a class the same semester I got offered a job (Fall Senior Year)? Do you think they will take back the offer?,"Some background: I am an Electrical Engineering major and this class is an elective that has nothing to do with the job I got offered or my major. I have a good GPA so I am not worried about how it will affect my GPA, I am worried about the F that will be on my transcript. I just do not know if this company would take the offer back considering I will have that F. I still have the spring semester to make it up so I will still graduate on time. ",17,235,345.33698389773565,college
Have you ever drunk/high emailed your TA or professor? What did you say?,,64,234,355.80381260143935,college
Post all FAFSA questions here!,"The FAFSA for the 2019-2020 school year opened on October 1, 2018. If you plan to attend college during the 2019-2020 school year, you should submit a FAFSA [if you are eligible to do so](https://fafsa.ed.gov/help/fftoc03a.htm).

First time? Here's what you need to do:

Create an FSA ID. If you are a dependent student, one of your parents will need to make one as well. This is your legal, electronic signature. You cannot submit the FAFSA without one. If your parent already has an FSA ID (for themselves or for other children), they must use that one.

Gather all necessary documents, including bank statements, 2017 tax information, any records of untaxed income, etc.

Start the FAFSA! If you or your parent are given the option to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool, use it! It will drag tax information from the IRS straight to the FAFSA and save you a lot of time.

FAFSA questions posted on /r/college must be in this thread. Standalone posts will be removed.

I am a financial aid expert and will be happy to answer any questions you may have. ",1380,236,413.1794491755134,college
I'm certain that my high school didn't prepare me for the kind of work I will have to do in college. Does anybody have any advice on keeping up your GPA?,"I'm one of the \~40 students from my class of 500 seniors going on to a 4\-year University. It's a very underprivileged area and as a consequence, I don't feel that they've prepared me for what's coming. Many of my friends who have gone to college have struggled to get 2.5 GPA's in their first quarters/semesters and I'm worried that I'll be the same. I'm going to be in a very specialized program full of very talented and able students and I really really want to be able to keep up with them. I'm prepared to do anything to be able to succeed in the next few years but I just don't know what that entails. I'm thinking about reading Cal Newport's ""How to become a Straight\-A Student"" but I'm not sure how well that will work. I'm also going for a 6\-week 9\-unit mini\-quarter at the university before the year officially starts to get myself accustomed to it.  Do any of you have any advice? I see a lot of really successful people on this subreddit and I'm hoping that some of you have experienced something similar to me and would therefore, have something they wish they might have known going in to college.

Thank you!

EDIT: Because it's relevant, I'm a Creative Studies: Mathematics major and some of the classes I'm most nervous about are Real Analysis, Abstract Algebra, Marine Biology, and my upper division writing class. ",56,236,507.11152093477267,college
What’s the coolest college professor moment you’ve ever witnessed in lecture?,"Did you ever have a professor that did something, anything, cool during lecture?

I had an Econ professor who taught the intro Microeconomics course when I was a freshman, and he would auction off a bag of Cheetos (which usually went for $5-$15), just to demonstrate consumer demand. Lol",71,234,620.9154908421801,college
Does anyone know of any way to help make the walls more soundproof?,"So my roommate had a girl over last night. We live in a two-bedroom on-campus apartment so I don’t mind as much as in a dorm... however I could hear literally everything going on in his room.

I don’t want to be that guy, but I also don’t want to hear him screwing some chick all night. Does anyone have any tips for making it harder to hear through the walls? It seems like they’re paper-thin. It doesn’t have to be perfect, any little bit helps.",45,231,40.34966908292086,college
"Getting a 100 on a quiz will increase my grade by .1%, getting a 0 will decrease it by 7%. Why?","My school has a ""What-If"" grading calculator... I can see what my total grade would be if I were to get a certain grade on a particular assignment

&#x200B;

If I get 100% on a quiz I'll go from an 87 to an 87.1

If I get 0% I'll go from an 87 to an 80

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

^(I'm depressed)",49,236,338.9505602866245,college
Any of you guys regret not working harder in High School,Idk man I don't feel like I'm being challenged at my college now that I'm working harder and hence much sharper now. Its just some passover regrets I guess. I should make the best of college though. ,86,231,540.3629908421801,college
"Getting a ""C"" was the best thing that ever happened to me","I'm in the first semester of my Junior year and I've never gotten anything lower than a B in a test or in a class.
This year, I got a C on my first exam for a Gen Ed. 
As a perfectionist, I was absolutely horrified. It really ruined like two weeks of my life.
But then, shockingly, life went on. It motivated me to really buckle down and work hard.
Best of all, nothing really changed because I got a C.
I've been so terrified of failing in college, and it was really refreshing to learn my parents wouldn't kill me, the sky wouldn't fall etc.
I still want it to never happen again, but it's really been good for my attitude and mental health in general.
",51,233,734.0455950088467,college
The College Board is an unfair Monopoly. Is there anything we can do to challenge them?,"They claim to be ""non-profit"" but pay their board members 6 and 7 figure yearly salaries, while us kids try to get our parents to pay for us to take the Sat, AP exams, and they make us PAY to submit scores to colleges. That is outrageous. Can they be taken to court or anything about this?",54,232,755.1598658421801,college
Tips for living in a triple,My rooming assignment came in today and I got assigned to a triple room :/ any tips on managing this?,46,234,118.93568760143937,college
What do you guys do on your free time?,"I’m struggling to find things to do after class and on the weekends. I used to be a party girl in my early years of college and had so much energy to go out literally 24/7. But now I feel like a grandma and just want to stay in all the time, which ofc nothing wrong with that. But I want to make the most of my time and not wasting it away watching Netflix or taking long naps. 

So what do y’all do during your free time? I have a job M-F early mornings, go to class, try to workout/get hw done and after that I get bored. My friends are too busy to hang. I’m part of one organization that only has events going on like once a month.

I also go to a commuter school and live with my parents if that helps.

Just want to hear what you guys do!",103,233,264.8239746384764,college
"Momma, I did it.",,26,228,302.3953519532912,college
Anyone else think college is zero fun?,I think i picked the wrong course but still.. thought i would still have a lil fun but nope. Just made me into a ball of stress. ,117,232,560.9028288051431,college
I instantly like this class already.,,26,232,646.8809769532912,college
PSA: The FAFSA for the 2017-2018 school year opens October 1! Post your FAFSA questions here!,"Hi everyone!

The FAFSA for the 2017-2018 school year opened on October 1. If you plan on attending college during the 2017-2018 school year, you should submit a FAFSA if you are eligible to do so.

Here's what you need to do:

**1. Create an [FSA ID](https://fsaid.ed.gov/npas/index.htm).** If you are a dependent student, one of your parents will need to make one as well. This is your legal, electronic signature. You cannot submit the FAFSA without one. If mom/dad has already created an FSA ID (for older siblings), they should use that one.

**2. Gather all necessary documents**, including bank statements, 2015 tax information, any records of untaxed income, etc.

**3. Start the [FAFSA](https://fsaid.ed.gov/npas/index.htm)!**

If you or your parent are given the option to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool, use it! It will drag tax information from the IRS straight to the FAFSA and save you a lot of time. It is safe and secure.

**Please post your questions about the FAFSA on this thread, so as to avoid clogging the sub with posts. I work in financial aid and I will be happy to help.**",428,231,1116.1417524162543,college
Why do so many people go the classes and not pay any attention?,"I had a class where attendance was not taken and all the class material was posted online the day of the class. Still, in every class I would notice people watching Netflix throughout the entire class. On other occasions I'd get stuck sitting behind people that talk to each other for the entire class, which can be frustrating when I'm trying to pay attention.

Why do people do this? Is it a hangover from secondary/high school?",56,229,495.37455334218015,college
My college diploma has a spelling error...,,19,228,1294.0859075088467,college
An Honest Graduation Card,,1,230,153.34015519403198,college
"Since everyone has moved in/is moving in by now, can we get a thread of dorm pics?",I move in tomorrow and I’ll post mine then!,69,232,411.23053713847645,college
My college is really with the spooky memes,,6,226,358.91851167551346,college
What to do when grandma actually is dying before midterms?,"Title says it all. My grandmother hasn't been doing well for a number of years, but I just found out she lost 40 pounds in 4 days and is just over 60 pounds, it's really not looking good. I have 2 exams Monday, 1 Wednesday, and a paper due tonight I'm finishing up and I also work tonight. I don't want to miss the opportunity to see her for the last time because I'm constantly studying, but I need to study every moment I can until the exams. Last year I did horribly because of my depression and anxiety. This semester I have it under control and I'm doing extremely well. I've heard so many people talk about the cliche ""dead grandmother syndrome"" and I know how bad it would sound. Maybe I'm just trying to get everything off my chest. I really don't know what to do.

&#x200B;

Update:

Thank you so much to everyone for all the advice and kind words, it's been really appreciated. One of my professors happens to be the dean of my college and immediately replied saying it was no problem at all. Still waiting on replies from the others but I found that they do have a makeup exam policy so it should be fine. And to everyone who's had a similar experience, I'm truly sorry for what you've gone through. I'm going to spend some time with my family and focus on exams after fall break. ",24,227,369.20229639773567,college
Whoops!,,8,226,1101.9180950088469,college
how to avoid coming home,"my family is really abusive to me and i want to avoid coming home for breaks as much as possible (especially for summer break). i don’t think i can take anymore of this abuse so this is pretty urgent for me. 

because i wont be 18 until into the summer after my freshman year i can’t just refuse to come home without a reason they deem valid (or else they will probably try to call me a run away which in my state can land you in jail). 

my family will also be giving some financial support (i am almost at a full ride with scholarships but there is still a couple thousand a year to pay) so i can’t really say that i’m not coming home because i don’t want to (though i plan to do this when i’m in the right spot financially)

what are some things i can do over each break that will give me a valid reason to not come home?

edit: my college is about 2000 miles away from my house

edit 2: i just got back on and was overwhelmed by the support i’ve received. thank you for all of the good ideas, for sharing your stories, and for generally being great people! going to college this fall and having freedom from my family for the first time will be the best thing ever. thank you :)",37,225,127.99184500884678,college
What did you do to get that 4.0?,"What you gave up, the habits you forged, etc.",63,226,817.2222732495876,college
even just applying to community college...,,5,229,1279.7090440829209,college
GPA requirement for an internship,"Hi everyone,

So I'm looking to apply for an internship for next summer and the GPA requirement says 3.0 and above but right now im at a 2.9. Is it a lost cause or are most employers forgiving? I can definitely get it up by end of this semester but I think it will be too late. Thanks!",54,227,77.90088436069864,college
"Older student, 7 years at community college, changed major 3 times, GPA dropped so low I almost was on academic probation. Graduating Friday with TWO degrees with honors and accepted into my dream school for my BA. If you are struggling with college: I see you, I feel you. Keep going. You CAN do it!",,13,226,151.647192231069,college
Just got my class syllabus... looks like having a cold is not allowed,,77,224,423.9776088977357,college
Advice in test-taking after 5 standardized tests over the past 2 years,"So, I have taken the SAT about 3 times and the ACT twice. I studied super super hard for both, reviewed my mistakes, and was relentless in my reviews. My mock exam scores were in the high 1400s range and upper 31+ range. however, whenever I take the real exam, the scores come out to be much lower than the mock scores. How is this possible and what can I do to improve?",27,227,92.29885889773567,college
Do I tell my professors I'm going through some shit and it's affecting my performance,"Basically I'm going through some real rough mental shit right now and I'm going to see a psychologist soon. Last semester wasn't so bad, I have an idea what it might be but it's really not normal. The semester started a week ago and my attendance has been really bad.",35,223,276.0979445458838,college
I hope all of you guys have a successful semester!,"College can be tough, confusing, and scary - but I hope you all can find the motivation and courage to pull through and make this a great semester! We got this! ",21,224,633.1246343606987,college
College tip that I don't think I've seen here,"I'm sure many upper classman already know this but a lot of freshman probably don't. Or at least I didn't know this my freshman year. 

TIP: Make it an effort to attend class on days where attendance is usually the lowest. A lot of students usually skip the class after a big test or a class period just before a holiday. The catch is, a lot of professors will use these days to reward the kids that come to class often by giving out extra credit points or having an in class quiz. 

Obviously, you should attend EVERY class. But I know that for a lot of people, skipping a class every week or two is pretty normal. 

EDIT: As people mentioned below (and I forgot to put in the main post), they might also show you an essay question that will be on an upcoming exam so that you can study for it specifically and not go in blind like the kids that skipped class that day. ",21,224,1084.0959422310689,college
US students; Advice for a UK student studying in the US for a semester. And how strict are they in alcohol?,"So in January I'm going to be flying out to the US to do a semester abroad. I'm a second year student from the UK. What are some things that will be useful for me to know? How is university different in the US compared to other countries? I've never been to the US before and my expectations are based mainly off of TV and movies. 

Also, I'm 20 years old and have been legally drinking for over 2 years, really sucks to think that I'll be underage again. How strict are they on alcohol there? (This is really my main question) 

Edit: I'm also looking at getting a car whilst I'm over there, is it easier to hire Rather than buy a car and sell it before I leave?",36,218,333.3224468606986,college
I am accused of peeing on my girlfriends roommates bed. She has no proof. What do I do? (Follow up),"I laid out the situation in this previous thread. https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/9cz575/i_am_accused_of_peeing_on_my_girlfriends/?st=JLPNZKYV&sh=69a027c4

Today I met with the RD and I explained a possible theory of mine, which was that the roommate had brought her mini fridge to campus that morning, and perhaps she had placed it on her bed and the ice melt from the freezer had leaked onto her bed, causing a wet spot and a bad smell. She told me that what was on the bed was indeed pee. She said that she could confirm that because she had a campus police officer smell the sheets, and he said it smelled like pee, and that she would believe him because he worked in a penitentiary for 8 years (???). 

I explained the situation from my point of view, saying that I had spent the night but would never think of peeing on somebody’s bed. The RD then proceeded to tell me that she has a threshold of people that she needs to hold accountable for situations such as these and that me and my girlfriend would receive letters in a few days explaining our punishments. 

This seems very illegal and against any possible university policy to come to such a conclusion so quickly with no evidence other than that a police officer smelled the bed and said it smelled like urine. Both urine and freezer fluid smell bad, so it could be possible that he mistook a bad smell for urine. 

TLDR: The RD who I was supposed to meet with told me that the sheet smelled like urine, and since me and my girlfriend were the only people in the room, she has no choice other than to punish us. This seems fast and without due process. How should I proceed?",42,225,407.06117371255044,college
"My best friend dropped out on day 4, how do i support him?","If this isn't the right sub, please redirect me... My best bud started at a good school recently. We're going to different places so we've been staying in touch and he was strangely and increasingly depressed every day. He didn't sound like he was enjoying himself at all. I wondered if this was the right choice for him, despite his academic prestige and his passion for his subject. 

He called me late last night to let me know he was going home and taking all his stuff with him before classes got started. I support him and agree with his decision - he was getting concerningly depressed at this point. He didn't want to waste money on what he felt wouldn't do him well and he wants to take time to sort himself out a bit before going back and giving it another go. Again, super proud, that's a tough decision.

How do I best support him? I'm a big huge academics nerd so the thought of dropping is kind of intangible to me, but I love my friend so much and want to make sure he knows that his decision is genuinely okay and to help him through the societal pressure. 

Edit: You all are so amazing. I love hearing your stories and your input. My buddy will be driving through where I live now on his way back home and we're doing dinner!",16,224,417.3554908421801,college
From a professor... bet.,,17,218,184.8141135273653,college
Roughly how much time do y’all spend on school work every day?,,129,222,219.87730797180973,college
Persisting through a difficult class,"Hey y'all, just wanted to see if anyone feels the same way: I'm taking a class for my major (Econ) that's super difficult for me to understand and it takes me back to taking classes in my least competent subject (math). Very frustrating, very difficult, I have a D+ average on the homeworks of which the questions are taken from old tests, so the upcoming test I have is basically similar to the questions on the homeworks.

&#x200B;

I've been going to office hours, but they proved to be less productive for me as other students would come in at the same time and the professor would be bouncing between 3 to 4 students crowded around a small circle table, each asking 3 to 4 different questions.

&#x200B;

The prof guides students through figuring out the answers when you go to office hours, but I've never had this experience where I was so incapacitated and incompetent with the information that I wasn't able to at least figure out the answer on my own. Homeworks are 20% of the grade and this upcoming exam is 25% of my grade as well.

&#x200B;

It'd be a bad start to get a D+, and the exam is on Wednesday. I'm meeting with the professor today to talk to him about what I just mentioned.

&#x200B;

What's everyone else's experience?

&#x200B;

EDIT:

The class does not follow a very structured or organized curriculum in terms of what topic will be covered; the professor makes the material relevant to present-day applications and thus homework explanations and answers can't be looked up online, and after a brief search of Khan Academy on Microeconomics, I've found relevant but not exactly the same material that we're covering in class. I'll do more thorough searches on some of the topics he's going over.",55,219,234.3969144532912,college
I FINALLY graduate college on Saturday!,"After 4 1/2 years, it’s finally happening!! ",19,217,311.8235116755135,college
Should I go to the counselor for a stupid problem?,"I've only ever made one friend and I've never been on a single date despite how hard I try in either and it's really bringing me down to the point I lack the motivation o even pay attention in class or do homework. I know it's my own fault for being a total loser though

&#x200B;

Also I'm a straight white male, and everyone tells me I'm too privileged as is, so should I even go there or would they reject from even talking to me?",60,219,396.41343065699493,college
What are some things you wished you learned before going to college?,"These can be anything, from life skills such as laundry, to academic skills such as programming. i still have a while before college starts and thought it would benefit if I learned form you guys. ",158,220,546.3994260273653,college
Cal Poly’s Lambda Chi Alpha under fire for Black Face incident,,81,222,556.2617524162542,college
Smart College Students: How do you get good grades?,"If you're going to say ""Study"", please list a study method. 

I'm trying to do well in school but I seem to be failing at it. Maybe I can learn a new strategy from one of you guys. 

Thanks in advance for your answer.",75,221,585.9125973236617,college
Confession: I really miss High School,"I miss High School every time I think about it... even though college is going okay. It makes sense because I am only a freshman in college, but I will still always love high school. It feels like things were so much easier academically and socially. Here is a list of the things I miss the most about HS:

1\) My group of friends

2\) The lacrosse team

3\) Hilarious and awesome teachers/admins

4\) The events like pep rally, prom, assemblies

\- My friends were amazing, a lot of them were also my teammates as well. I just miss my old friends who are now either in college, working a job, or in the military. I know we go our separate ways but it sucks to think I will never talk to 95&#37; of them again. I had strong friendships and sad it's over after four short years.

\- Where do I even start with my lacrosse team? I loved these guys like brothers. The brotherhood you feel just being apart of that locker room atmosphere is incredible. I was fortunate enough to be a starter for 2\+ years. I miss competing on that field with my guys every day. Also, my coach was great too. 

\- I had some really awesome teachers/admins who just made my day better. Students often hate on teachers, but I loved most of my HS teachers. They really inspired me to do great things and showed me how to push through when I am struggling. They cared about me because I put in the work.

\- I miss the small and big events that the school would host. Prom of course was great, all my friends and girlfriends hanging out/dancing until like midnight. I also miss some of the pep rallies as weird as it sounds. Everybody just laughing and clowning around in the gym. Yelling ""Go Home Freshmen!"" was hysterical. I miss all of it.

Lastly, do not lecture me on how college is better than HS. All I'm saying is that I really miss HS compared to college. College is alright but it just does not feel the same. If anybody is feeling the same way let me hear your story in the comments! ",57,218,531.385143619958,college
College roommate has it out for me,"We were friends in the beginning of the semester and all of a sudden she hates me and does everything in her power to make my life more difficult— making up lies about me, talking loudly on the phone knowing I need to be sleeping, never chipping in for common supplies, using my things, generally just being really inconsiderate. I tried approaching her with an apology only to be lashed out at and telling me she needed to be left alone and doesn’t want to talk to me, which is odd considering she was perfectly fine prior to all of this and I can’t think of a single thing I did wrong.

How can I deal with this in a mature manner?",34,218,239.07895149032828,college
My Suitemate is the RA and She Doesn’t Clean Up After Herself,"Hi guys, so I live in a single suite and share a bathroom with the RA. The RA does a very bad job at cleaning up after herself. Her hair is all over the sink, shower, and bathroom and she hasn’t once picked it up. Not only that but every time she showers she leaves a large puddle right outside my door. 
It is now the ninth week in college and we were supposed to do our roommate agreement about three weeks ago however she never showed up when our meeting was supposed to happen. Not only that but she has put no effort into rescheduling or even speaking to me about it. I have asked to reschedule only to be ignored.
I don’t know what to do because obviously she is the RA. So what do I do? ",16,215,367.9456644532913,college
‘Find Your Passion’ Is Awful Advice,,24,216,462.38896306440233,college
My professor keeps calling me an asshole.,"Ok so here's the deal. My Thermo professor is Hispanic, my age(mid to late 20's), and generally cool. A week or so ago I saw him around campus and he greeted me with ""ayee cabron what's up"" I replied politely as the tone indicated that cabron meant something like bro, or dude or something.

Fast forward to about five minutes ago he passed me in the hall and said pretty much the same thing. I replied politely again but decided to Google the word cabron. Turns out he's been calling me an asshole. 

I guess my first question is, is he calling me an asshole or something else that Google translate isn't hip with? 

Secondly, if this dude has been openly calling me derogatory names, what should I do? 

Additional notes: I sit in the front. I'm a nontraditional student. I participate. I'm not a cabron...to him lol. 

Edit: a word",59,219,703.2488357495876,college
Finally completed all assignments and projects for the term!,,12,219,942.1368334347727,college
Sex life at dorms,"I am an exchange student and will live at a shared dorm with another guy in Fall. My question is, how is the sex life in college if you share a room. I‘ve always had my own room and therefore not that issue. Furthermore are the stereotypes true, that everybody does ist with everyone like in the movies?",69,216,67.38860426810605,college
Being a male cheerleader,idk if anyone here can help me but i tried looking all over Reddit and just could not find what I was looking for. I am thinking of trying out to be a male cheerleader but I would like to know what steps I should take to make this happen. If anyone can help me please do.,35,214,319.9656644532912,college
why am i unable to force myself to study??,"yes I know it is my fault. I just don't know how to force myself to just do it. I procrastinate so long and wait until the very last minute. It's really odd, I get kind of a ""high"" from cramming at the last minute lol. If I start studying like 2 hours before an exam, I feel so motivated and happy and I like...enjoy it. But when I try to study when I have endless amounts of time I just get this overwhelming feeling of dread and I don't want to even look at my work. I get really distracted by everything and I'll start looking up totally random stuff online. 

It's so annoying and I come prepared and ready to study and then when I finally open up a book I'm so upset. I don't know if it's just me hating what I study? any tips?",42,214,505.98086121255045,college
I just slept through my final worth 33% of my grade,"WHAT THE FUCK DO I DO?! This is a basic stats class that I’m already retaking because of my lack of motivation, but this just has me stuck. I don’t know what to do, because I’m sure to fail the class again if I can’t get a retake. The final was this morning and I slept straight through it, and there are no other sections to take it. So I repeat, what the fuck do I do?!",62,218,671.2866135273654,college
Found out a couple of months ago that I'll probably die in the next few years; my grades are suffering and I don't know if it's even worth it to continue.,"My parents told me last time I went to visit them (at the start of the year) that my mother's side of the family carries a set of genetic defects, and that I should probably get tested. Well, I got tested. My mother and brother are fine, but I have the defects. It culminates in an overwhelmingly high likelihood of dying before the age of 30, which gives me just over 8 years left to live assuming I survive until 30. 

I haven't told anyone yet because I don't really know what I'm supposed to say, or how to bring it up when I look perfectly healthy. If I do bring it up then I'd have to talk about it, and I don't really want to do that either. 

I've have a few months to process the news, but I can't get over it. I can barely be bothered to do my work and hand it in anymore, since I'm studying for my dream career and now I know that I likely won't have the time to make it. My professors think that it's just stress from taking on so many extracurricular activities this semester, but I'm really taking on so much because I want to make the most of my time, and I still feel like I'm failing at that. In this situation people will always suggest that you take a semester or year off, but that would just feel like the most insulting waste of time I could imagine. 

I've tried doing more work, and volunteering, and donating, and being nice to absolutely everyone all the time, and it still feels so empty. 

Should I keep going until the end of the year, when I get my degree, even if it's stressful and unenjoyable most of the time? Should I go on to graduate studies afterwards, which is even more stressful but what I always wanted to do? Do I tell my professors why I have been acting so out of character lately? I'm torn between wanting people to be a little bit understanding right now, and not wanting to hurt them with the news or have them feel sorry for me. ",27,219,879.8172963977356,college
"If you are 18 and about to hit college or are in college, here are some words of advice from someone x2 your age.","I wrote this in response to this image: http://i.imgur.com/mHRCFxY.jpg

While I agree with this advice; I would take it a step further.

Don't freak out; but know that what you are going to be facing in your life is going to be leaps and bounds harder than what your parents went through. Manage your expectations; your life will be a lot harder than theirs was.

If you are 18 today, you were born in 1997. When you were just a small child the internet bubble burst. Then the housing crisis happen in 2007. You were 11 at the time. You didn't care.

Truth is that crash wiped out entire swaths of soon to be retirees as far as financial security for retirement is concerned. As a result they are still working; lessening your upward mobility. Not only that, since a lot of people lost their jobs you had a ripple effect; Software Architects were fired; and some took Senior Developer positions; in turn a lot of those people were fired and they took Mid Level positions; and so on. This caused people entering the work force to face the worst market in decades; not only that but it has put a downward pressure on salaries. In fact, I read a study that showed Millennials are earning 20% less than they should be; and they lost 5+ years of experience by being unemployed.

At the same time tuition costs have skyrocketed; as well as text books. You will most likely leave college with 40-60k in debt before you ever enter the work force; I've known some who had 160k+ in debt because they went to Ivy League Schools. Your parents didn't face that situation; the government has continued to cut public college funds; and that in turn is passed on to you, the student.

While all of this is going on; in the next 20 years you will see entire industries collapse or shrink almost to nothing due to technology, innovation, and automation. Automated cars are around the corner; Uber is replacing taxy companies left and right; AirBnB is replacing hotels; this innovation will continue. Soon we wont need chefs or bar tenders; you already see being able to order food at kiosks so no waiters. You have to choose smartly what profession you choose; instead of what you ""like"" to do; hopefully they are one and the same. Liberal Art Degrees? History? They are great; but the number of people with degrees vs how many are needed is a bad ratio; you will have a bad time finding work or will be making little to no money compared to other degrees, all while having added tens of thousands of debt that you have to pay of.

Ok, so I scared you. What can you do about it? Here is my advice. I am not quite double your 18 years of age, but getting there.

1. Choose a school wisely; limit the debt you gain. Yes Harvard sounds great on your resume; how about having to pay off the equivalent on a brand new house @8%+ for the next 30 years? Unless you are well off, or can get a ton of scholarships; be very careful how much debt you want to get before you have even started your first job.
2. There are top trending jobs that are relatively immune to the next waves of automation. Science, specifically engineering/development will continue to be needed for decades to come. Technology, whether it be helpdesk technicians, network admins, developers, business analysts, that's the hot market right now. The things that require critical thinking and problem solving will be the last to be automated; they are the hardest to teach a machine to perform. That being said Machine Learning is making lots of gains in that area; so be mindful and get there as quick as you can; remember you will always need seniors in positions to watch over the robots; if you get there in time you will be pretty ok job wise.
3. Work Experience and practicing critical thinking skills > a specific colleges' degree. The degree tells an employer you can learn; that's it. Depending if you are on the east vs west coast that degree will matter more(in the east). But at the end of the day that piece of paper can be used as toilet paper in the next 20 years. I don't mean to imply you shouldn't go to college; but choose the institution wisely. As more jobs get automated its you; the individual, and your ability to think that will differentiate yourself from the masses.
4. When you were a kid you were told you have it easy. You did. I wish I had 5+ hours a day to play video games and jack off. In college you think you will have a lot of pressure; it is nothing compared to the real world. Enjoy those 4 years, party, don't add too much debt; not to say it is all down hill after that, but discretionary time will be something you will value more than cash itself. Right now you want cash; later you will want time/freedom.
5. Give yourself until you are 30 to feel financially secure. If by 30 you have 100k put away and a 401k account, perhaps a kid and are married; you are doing really well. Most people are not that fortunate.
6. Take criticism; and don't feel offended especially if it is constructive. Learn from other peoples' mistakes instead of making them yourself; I promise that will make a big difference in the long run.
7. You are facing a daunting future with problems previous generations haven't had to deal with. Capital has won over Labor; simple as that. You wont figure that out until you work 60 hours a week; which is seen as mandatory, and they only give you 2% raises as a ""Reward.""
8. Get into the tech industry; and I mean both men and women, we need more women to help balance the projects output. Your opinion is valued and as more men figure out women will help create a better product, they will get on board as well. Executive level employers who are not 60+ have already figured this out. And jump ship every time you feel you have reached the next level. I don't mean to say you shouldn't give your employer the opportunity to bump your salary, but if they say no move on. Loyalty is now an illusion used to keep the masses placated. You will be able to get 5-10k with each jump. My largest jump was 25-30k.
9. As daunting as it sounds; you have the greatest technology ever made by humanity at your disposal. No analog phones, or beepers, reading books is still important but ""let me google that for you""; Sharpen your brain, that will be your greatest tool for the rest of your life. You have all the information of the world at your disposal; if you can learn to utilize it effectively you will have an edge.",89,220,1465.237018619958,college
Is anyone else fed up with having to pay a steep amount for a textbook because you need the online code to do homework?,"More and more of my classes are becoming like this. I had to pay $220 for a textbook I have NOT used once just to be able to do my homework. 

Whatever happened to paper and pencil/partial credit? I always learned better that way. This method just seems lazy. 

Edit: By the way, this is a five week summer course. Not even a full semester! ",54,215,836.1810926940319,college
Is it acceptable to ask a past professor to write a recommendation over email?,"Currently planning to transfer, but I need a professor recommendation to do so. Is it acceptable to ask for one over email? I feel like its very impersonal and bad-mannered, but the deadline is march 1 and I can't find his office hours to meet in person. Sending an email to ask about office hours seems redundant/waste of time.",14,216,243.7800510273653,college
One of my professors had us rate his beard game from “weak” to “dope af” on his midterm evaluation of his course.,,8,213,574.8890209347727,college
Anyone else here get anxiety because their parents are scraping by to pay their tuition?,"My parents point-blank refused to let me take out student loans (which is kind of smart on their part I guess, considering the hell most people go through repaying them), no questions asked. Every time I bring up how concerned I am about the family’s financial situation, they just shut me down and tell me not to worry about it. But I KNOW for a fact that they’re struggling to pay for it. I’ve seen their tax returns & bank statements. Not a day goes by when my anxiety doesn’t eat at my insides thinking about this.

**I’m not looking for advice on how to alleviate the burden on my family. I’m already working on that. I just want to know if anyone else out there is going through something similar because I have literally no one to talk to about this.**",57,214,605.2169376014394,college
My roommate is in jail.,"Friday night after I went to bed, my roommate went to go party with some friends and ended up drinking too much and on his walk home, assaulted a police officer and it is being charged as a felony. I know the chances he gets expelled are very high, but what does this mean for me? Do I just get my own room for the rest of the year? Anything helps. Btw live in a suite-style dorm with two other people",48,214,760.3724584347727,college
Do you feel like everyone around you is smarter than you?,"I just constantly feel stupid. I make mostly As, but I feel so much less intelligent than the majority of people in my classes. I'm less sharp, I'm less articulate, I'm less creative, and I'm less insightful.
I was homeschooled through high school and I am kind of naive and immature as well, and that doesn't help.
College just makes me miserable because I feel like a fool. I'm in classes where you're supposed to participate a lot, and I always feel like such a fool because the things I have to say are so shallow and stupid sounding compared to other people my age.
I'm a Junior but I feel like a child next to people my age. 
",58,216,762.8977014903284,college
Is it worth it to go to a community college for 2 years and then transfer to a university for another 2 years?,,90,213,68.98685658292086,college
Dropping out of chemistry and failing my math class first year need help,I have done tutoring talking to teachers everything I’m doing fine in two out of my three classes as I’m dropping out of chemistry this week. I have adhd and disability help for it. ,43,215,360.375942231069,college
Sleep deprivation,"I’ve begun counting out hours to rationalize my sleeping habits. Like, if I sleep from 6:00-9:00 PM, I can get up and do stuff until like 4:00 AM and then get back to sleep until I have to get up again at 9:00 AM. Anybody else do this?",38,212,122.61834963847642,college
"People who have a 4.00 (or anything higher than 3.5) GPA in college, how do you do it? What strategies do you mainly follow?",,82,213,624.7805602866246,college
"just ordered a textbook from Chegg and they included tide pods, 1-month of Hulu+, and a red bull. it's probably all cross-advertising but I thought it was cool.",,24,211,1744.2439977866245,college
What is the best app to keep track of what homework you have due and when?,"I’m not good about using my physical planner, but was wondering if anyone had a good app they use? Or suggestions to remember what homework is due and when?",91,210,255.82196074958753,college
"Meet with your professors. There’s nothing but positive things to come from it, especially if you need help later in the year. They have office hours for a reason.",,31,213,709.144530194032,college
Students at elite colleges are even richer than experts realized,,37,213,801.3263473236616,college
Rate Your Professor!,"Hey everyone I hope you made it through the Spring semester! As a reminder, be sure to check out your professors on ratemyprofesors and give them a rating! Let other students know how your experience was and give credit to your awesome professors. Some of your professors make a living this way or supplement their life so give them a helping hand! ",31,216,894.4142871384764,college
Does anyone else get sick to their stomach making big purchases in college because it was rare to not spend a penny growing up in a poor household?,"*rare to ever spend
Oops

Like spending anything luxury over a certain amount makes me sick because of just how much money it is. People in college wearing airpods, $1000 phones, etc and it's just such an odd concept to spend that much money without worrying about anything financially.

Even in my personal life. My significant other grew up in an engineering family, great wages, etc. Can go to Red Lobster and spend $150 like it's nothing. The father wrote me a check to see her for $200 because of being long distance and it's just- $200 in my family would be no food for the next two weeks.

Edit:
As stated below, my grandparents came to America with $0.01 and only spoke Romanian and retired middle class with retirement traveling the world. Of course if you work hard you deserve to have that money. 
My point is that it feels nauseating to finally be able to make large purchases as I grew up largely poor. I'm not bashing on people who have the money to do such as they worked hard, or their parents, etc to get to where they are.",28,212,9.950375101439379,college
How do college students pay their rent and other living expenses?,,125,214,441.3333612125505,college
Brag about your major!,"I see a lot of negative posts there and I wanna try and bring some positivity. 

What's your major and why do you love it?",447,210,747.3770301940319,college
"The split second decision of whether or not to dap up, knuckle touch, or quickly hand shake someone you know who's walking by is an ongoing issue in my everyday life.","Sometimes, it's none of the above. ",41,210,757.4221227866245,college
Don't worry too much about your public speaking skills. 'Skills' are things you can learn!,"Edit: Please share your tips for giving talks and presentations if you have any. Everyone has to do it for the first time at some stage, but there are lots of things you can do to make it go smoother. Moral of the story: don't dread that debate or speech class!

It's something that's pretty easy to forget. You fall into this trap where you think that your asocial tendencies are a part of your personality. That they're immutable, unchangeable. But really, social and debate skills are just like hand-eye coordination: the more you meaningfully practice, the better you will get. On a related note, some people just seem to have better coordination off-the-bat, some seem to learn it faster, and others will really struggle to get the hang of it. But with social skills, there aren't many targeted exercises you have to do in primary school to help you learn, and if you fall behind then you're either bullied or just ignored. So your problem goes untreated and you fall further and further behind everyone else, convinced that there just *has* to be something wrong or different about you. That doesn't have to be the case.

At 16 years old, I couldn't even talk to a *cashier* because I was so nervous and awkward. I couldn't answer the phone or call anyone. I hated cameras and so there are no photos of me between the ages of 5 and 18. I hung out with people at school but I never made any real friends; the ones I had let me stick around but weren't really interested in me.

And yet today, at 22 years old, I went on national breakfast radio for an interview. I've spent the last couple of weeks speaking in front of nearly 1000 school children and over 200 adults. I've given lectures and run demonstrations, I've eaten bugs on a stage, I've had my photo taken so many times that the cameras are a part of the backdrop now. I have websites and interviews, and yes, I talk on the phone sometimes. And none of it made me nervous or scared.

There's no amazing trick to it, just constant exposure to new things. Once you speak in front of a group once, it's basically the same every time afterwards. Whether it's 10 people or 1000, they're just a bunch of faces. In fact, *all* large stages are equivalent once you have the lights in your eyes and you can't actually see the audience at all. After your 2nd, 3rd, maybe 4th time at something, you'll realise that you've experienced a lot of what it means to do that thing. Know your subject matter, be confident that you can rabble on about something when asked or just admit that you don't know the answer, and let go of worry. You'll start getting better and handling conversations on-the-fly, you'll find ways to interject some laughs into your presentation, and before you know it, people will be saying ""wow, how does someone get so good at that"" *about you*. 

No one is paying attention when you start out. It may be for a debate class, a random presentation, or some obscure speech you've been offered up to give, but if you have no practice with public speaking then it's almost by *definition* that no one will care. My first ever presentation to my department as a freshman was a bit of a shit-show, but my most recent one was a hit. Every time you learn what works and what doesn't, and you develop your own style a little bit more. And if you're still panicked before that big presentation:

 - Don't drink coffee or energy drinks beforehand. Your body will provide you with more than enough adrenaline. Too much, really. 

 - Take a bottle or glass of water with you. Your mouth will get dry whilst talking (and due to nerves), and then it can feel/sound weird when you talk. Others won't really notice, but you will and it'll be off-putting. 

 - If you need to, sprint around the building once or twice beforehand. You're going to need to burn off some energy. Being a bit exhausted is actually good since it'll balance with your nervous energy and make you seem ""relaxed"" and ""calm"" to an audience. 

 - Also, distract yourself beforehand. Try to go first if possible, talk to friends beforehand, or focus intently on other talks if you have to wait. Don't think about yours. There are no good changes you can make right before you speak. Leave improvisation for when you're more comfortable and experienced. 

 - Practice again and again and again. Preferably, see if you can get into your actual lecture hall (or where you're giving the talk) for some practice runs with classmates/friends. Don't make it a super serious practice, and establish beforehand that even word-vomit is fine for a first go. You're there to practice *giving* a talk, getting a feel for the room and your own timing, not to practice being judged. 

 - Change your mindset from ""I'm nervous"" to ""I'm excited"". Those two emotions elicit very similar bodily responses, it's just your interpretation of that feeling that's different. Keep doing that and your brain will slowly learn that talking is *fun*, not *scary*. 

 - For your actual presentation: less is more. Pick out one (max two) key ideas that you want to convey and then structure your presentation around that. Keep visuals simple but engaging too. If you have e.g. powerpoint slides, keep it to <5 bullet points with no more than a sentence in each. Figures and your own speech should provide the rest of the content. 

Edit2: Another key tip for a smooth presentation

 - ""Seed"" in questions that you want people to ask and then have a somewhat prepared answer to those questions. If you're presenting the results for 3 different cases, maybe you only go into depth on 2 of them, leaving the third one as something people can ask about. The more questions you can predict ahead of time, the less you'll have to fumble for an answer on the spot. ",15,207,431.06579176810607,college
"This is it guys, this is my final shot","Hey guys, I just thought I'd get this out there because I wanted some sort of record for myself down to look back at no matter the outcome. Anyway, like the title vuagly suggests, this is my final shot at making it in college. I'm a second semester sophomore studying biochemistry and I've have a fairly tough go so far in ny college career. My GPA is uncomfortably low to a point were I am facing disqualification status on my enrollment at the school unless I'm able to turn this quarter around drastically. I have had mitigating circumstance that have caused some of my issues, which fortunatly my school has recognized and taken into account for giving me another shot at turning everything around, but I cant say that all of it has been out of my control. I need to maintain a B-C+ average through all my classes this quarter to keep afloat and get readmitted come spring quarter, but it's a really tall order considering I've never gotten above a C in my courses yet. I dont beleive I'm incapable or unable to meet my goals, but my track record has said otherwise and adimmitedly puts a pretty big damper on my motivation and confidence moving forward. I have 4 classes this quarter, including a course I need to complete my work for to get a grade from my last quarter. It's an absolute truckload of work, but it's what I need to get back into things. What I have to gain is stability and the ability to continue in school without any worry in my mind, what I have to lose is an incredibly important opportunity in my life due to my own doings and circumstances. Its gut wrenching, and I havent even started taking classes yet. If you guys took the time to read this, thank you for sticking it out. If you have any tips at all or support I would more than appreciate anything anyone has to offer. Hope you guys dodge my situation or similar ones all together, and if you have congratulations on sticking through👍

Thanks everybody, and good luck❤",26,212,285.2782107495875,college
"As the semester wraps up, remember to download and archive all files and syllabi for your classes","You never know when you may need to reference old information, view a syllabus, etc. Keep a backup of all your classes files and your submitted work! This is especially important for classes that are major specific. ",15,208,546.9610116755134,college
Crash Course College Guide For Freshman,"If I'm not allowed to do this, please remove my post. I've been doing a lot of research about college, and I made a quick google doc of how to get ready for college. This is designed for freshman who have no idea on how to start to get ready. I hope it helps 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-w-cRNvazphrzxr1PQPZsJefiQ6RJmEpSAuYG8Af-kQ/edit?usp=sharing

Update#1: I have loads more notes like these. If you'd be interested in me posting them, please let me know. 

Update# 2: I tried to make a reddit friendly version. I apologize for any formatting errors. This is my first time trying this. 

Update# 3: Most of my research came from Amor Ari, Thomas Frank, Buzzfeed, and Katherout in case you were wondering. I wasn't trying to rip them off, I was just trying to compile all their info together so that you wouldn't have to watch all the videos that I did

                    **How To Get Organized In College**
                            
                    * Use Cloud Storage to Store Files
                        * Dropbox gives 2 GB for free, Google Drive gives 15GB for free
                    * Separate Each Folder by different areas of your life 
                        * Work, College, Games, Student Activities, etc. 
                        * Create Special Folders for Projects in Each Class 
                        * FORCE YOURSELF TO CONTINUE PUTTING FILES IN THE CORRECT ORDER 
                    * Store old notes in file boxes
                    * Get a Daily Planner
                        * Use Colored Coated Pens 
                            *Red for Class, Purple for clubs, Green for Work
                    * Work With Friends/Study Groups 
                    * Create an Accomplishment Journal 
                        *An accomplishment journal tracks your progress on a day to day basis
                        * Every night before you go to bed, or every morning when you wake up, plan 
                           out the following day
                            * Setup times to go to office hours, study homework etc. 
                            * Don't Overplan!! 
                        * At the end of every day, check your accomplishment journal to see how you did
                            * Reschedule or complete any necessary tasks
                            * IN ORDER FOR THIS TO WORK, YOU MUST DO THIS ON A DAILY BASIS 
                        
                        
                    **Tips To Start a Semester Right**
                        
                    * Know what materials you need up front
                        * Email Professor, ask if you actually need book/latest version 
                        * Get hard-to-find materials and paper copies of books ahead of time
                    * NOTE: It's better to buy textbook that you aren't sure if you need than to lose progress            
                       for first couple weeks because you don't have book 
                    * Put your class times on Google Calendar before semester starts 
                        * Put the Building and Room Number of Class in ""description"" section of                            
                           Google Calendar
                            * If you get lost easily, link a floor plan of the building in the description 
                               section of Google Calendar
                    * Put your Professors' office hours on your calendar 
                        * Specify the time, location, and contact info in the description section
                    * Before Classes Start, physically walk to each class location 
                    * Put Important dates in Google Calendar BEFORE semester starts
                        * Finals Week, No School, Drop Date, Pass/Fail Date
                        * Most Colleges have an academic calendar available that list all important dates 
                    * Set up good Study Habits 
                        * Establish a good study location right away 
                        * Pair that with a set time to study every day 
                    
                    
                    **How To Exercise More as a Student**
                    
                    * Schedule Your Workout Times
                        * Look at your calendar, physically write in time, THEN COMMIT
                    * Use the 7 Minute Workout APP
                    * Find a workout buddy to keep you motivated
                        * This person should be someone that will push you and keep you on the right track 
                    * Find Fun ways to Exercise
                        * If you don't like lifting/treadmills find something else
                            * Intramural Sport, Hiking, join a club 
                    * Incorporate Simple Exercise into your everyday activites
                        * Take the stairs
                        * Eat at a dining hall farther way from your dorm 
                        * Walk around during study breaks         
                    * Take a physical education course
                        * Keeps you in shape, plus they're SUPER easy to pass
                    * Exercise while you study 
                        * Listen to audio books while you run
                        * Read while you use an exercise bike 
                    * If your schedule is packed, don't skip a workout, just shorten it
                        * A shorter workout is better than no workout 
                    * Buy a set of dumbells
                        * Keep them buy your desk, do a few sets while you study
                
                
                    **15 Tips to Get Great Grades** 
            
                    * During Syllabus Week (First Week of the Semester) Put in the Most Effort (Halo effect) 
                        * Halo Effect- If you act like a good student for first weeks of semester, the halo 
                           will stay with you
                            * Show up to Class
                            * Participate in class and ask questions
                            * Do the required reading
                            * Talk to professor after class/office hours
                        * During Syllabus Week, might seem like you have a lot of time on your hands, but 
                           this is your time to get ahead
                    * Make every assignment meaningful 
                        * If given option to choose a topic/project, choose a subject relevant to career goals 
                            * Will be helpful later down the road
                        * If you pick a meaningful topic, it will feel like less work
                    * Send your professors assignments early so that they can review them 
                        * Confirm with your professor ahead of time that they will look at your assignment(s)
                        * NOTE: Hold Professors accountable
                            * If a Professor says an assignment looks good, but you get a bad grade, confront 
                               them about it
                    * Review both sides of flashcards
                        * Don't just learn definition, don't just learn term
                        * Helps you learn content better for tests
                        * Use Checklists/To-do list/Planner/Calendar
                        * Write down every assignment and deadline in calendar and planner
                        * Make note of updates/changes
                        * Schedule your assignments a week in advance
                            * On a Sunday night, schedule everything you have to do, THEN COMMIT TO IT 
                    * Sit in the front row
                        * This forces you to stay engaged in class, PLUS professor will notice if you're gone. This 
                           holds you accountable 
                        * Makes the classroom feel smaller and less intimidating 
                        * Allows for you to make eye contact with the professor much easier
                        * Much easier to Participate and get to know professor 
                        * NOTE: Previous 4 steps all come in handy when professor is deciding whether or not to 
                           round up grades
                    * Join Clubs with other hard-working students
                        * Find an honor society, community service, or club for your major
                        * By doing this, you'll have a couple of familiar faces to work with in future classes 
                            * If you miss something in a lecture, they can help you out
                            * They make awesome study partners
                    * Get Sleep     
                        * Develop a regular sleep pattern
                            * Ex: Go to bed at 10:30, wake up at 7:00 
                        * When you get more sleep, you body is more aware, and more equipped to learn
                    * Review Materials from previous lectures before you go to class 
                        * Some Professors are going to pick up right where they left off without reviewing, so it's 
                           up to you to do it
                    * Build a relationship with your Professor 
                        * Ask Questions
                        * Go to office hours! It shows that you're a serious student 
                        * Building a relationship with professor can open up future opportunities
                            * They may write letter of recommendation, may offer future job/internship 
                               opportunities
                        * Hint: Professors love to talk about themselves, so the easiest way to build relationships is 
                           to ask them questions about themselves
                    * Set apart time to study
                        * Doing homework is NOT studying 
                        * Before you come to class, make sure info is fresh in your brain
                        * If you study on a regular basis, you won't have to cram for exams
                    * Strive for an A+ on every assignment 
                        * The key to getting an A in the class is to get an A on every assignment 
                        * Follow every guideline on every assignment
                        * Don't assume anything! If you have questions about assignment, ask professor BEFORE 
                           you turn it in
                    * Don't Get Distracted During Study Time
                        * If you have a scheduled study time, then STUDY 
                            * If you don't your future self will suffer
                    * Always Turn in Assignments/Papers Early
                        * If you have to turn something in online, turn it in a few days in advance
                            * You might have technical difficulties/unexpected delays
                                * Professor won't always be sympathetic 
                        * If you keep doing this, it will become a habit 
                    * Do your very best at the beginning 
                        * You are making your first impression on what kind of student you are 
                        * Might help you in future
                            * If you have reputation for handing in good work, professor might skim over future 
                               assignments because they trust you 
      
        
                    **How to Use Google Calendar Efficiently**
                    * Split Calendar into Several Calendars
                        * Class
                        * Work
                        * Campus Events
                        * Office Hours
                        * Everything Else
                    * At the beginning of the semester put all important dates into calendar
                        * Drop Dates
                        * Finals week
                        * Exam dates
                        * No School 
                    * Color Code Your Calendar
                        * Class/Studying/Homework-Green
                        * Important Dates-Red
                        * Office Hours-Blue
                        * Exercise-Purple
                        * Everything Else-Brown
        
        
                    **Weekly Review**
  
                    * Create a ""Weekly Review Day"" once a week
                        * During This Time You Should 
                            * Track Progress with classes
                            * Review Progress From Previous Week
                            * Plan Out the Following Week
                            * Make Appropriate Changes
                            * Reset Everything/Tie Loose Ends Together
                        * Sunday Night is a good time because it's before the start of a new week 
                    * Track Progress with Classes
                        * Make sure you're up to date with the assignments and readings
                        * Look at the syllabus for upcoming assignments
                    * Review Progress From the Previous week
                        * Ask Yourself: 
                            * ""What did I plan to get done?""
                            * ""What did I actually get done?"" 
                        * Make list of tasks that didn't get completed
                            * Do 1 of 3 things with them:
                                * Finish them now
                                * Reschedule them
                                * Delete them
                    * Plan Out the Following Week
                        * Make a schedule of the following week, including
                            * Study times
                            * Homework time
                            * Student activities
                        * Make a list of everything that needs to get done for the upcoming week 
                            * Find a time in the week to schedule tasks
                                * This is where accomplishment journal comes in handy
                    * Make Appropriate Changes 
                        * If you planned something in previous weekly review that didn't go as planned, now is the 
                           time to make changes
                            * NOTE: Don't add any new habits/productivity systems until day of weekly review
                            * Don't try to change your schedule in the middle of the week 
                    * Reset Everything
                        * This is the time to get everything ready for the upcoming week
                            * Clean your room
                            * Make sure Google Calendar is up to date
                            * Update any syllabi(plural of syllabus) changes
                            * Make sure accomplishment journal is up to date
                            * Make sure you have clean laundry for the coming week
                            * Grocery Shop 
    
                    
                                    
                                    
        
                                 
        
        
            
            
               
                            
            
            
            
                                       
            
                           
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                         
                                     
                           
                        
                          
                                
                                    
                          
                              ",40,204,808.9724352866247,college
"Dual Major going into senior year. What if the final two, one-per-semester classes I need for both majors happen to overlap in my last semester?","Hi, I've been wondering about this for a while...


I'm doubling majoring in computer science and economics. In going into my second to last semester and trying to plan accordingly



For my final Semester, Ill have one 'final' class for computer science and one 'final' class for economics. What would happen if I'm  unlucky both classes just happen to overlap? I've been keeping an eye on them and they never have, but what if they do? There is only one class of each offered each semester.",20,203,111.47441445329125,college
My professor asked me why I didn’t do my math homework and I told him I just didn’t get around to it..... Today he hands me this,,13,208,373.8956760273653,college
Math makes me want to give up,"Even though I know I shouldn’t. I’m taking Calculus 1 at my local community college this summer and I’m trying to maintain a positive attitude toward it and attend as tutoring and office hours as much as I can just to pass. What has helped you overcome math? Any tools that can help with Calc 1 in general? I just really don’t like the subject, I’m a biology major and I would rather study cells or chemistry than this, even though I know I need it. ",58,206,479.9287431569949,college
My uncle died today from cancer and I have a final exam tomorrow.,"My uncle passed today at the age of 55 from esophageal cancer that had spread to his brain. I’m very sad that I never got to say goodbye, but I’m even more sad for his wife, children, and his brothers (including my dad).  

I go to a community college. I have a microbiology final that I’ve been studying for, and I’m almost halfway reviewing through the material when I got the bad news. I’ve been crying on and off all day, so I decided to text my professor to let him know what happened and if he could show any leniency towards taking the exam. I would have came to see him but it was way passed his office hours.  

When I told him what happened the first thing he said was ask me if I would take an incomplete, but I’m not sure why he thought I would want to do that. I have 109% in his class and never missed an assignment or a day of lecture. I’m graduating in 2 days so taking an incomplete isn’t an option. Since my grade is so high, I could get a 0 on the final and still come out of the class with a B. I would prefer an A though, since this class is a prereq to the nursing school I’m looking at.  After I told him that wasn’t an option, I explained that I would take the final but I don’t think I will do very well considering what’s happened and he said “I’m sorry (my name)”. That was the end of the conversation.  

Is this normal behavior for a professor? From the text messages I don’t think he believed me. He didn’t seem very understanding of my situation at all. I know exam time means that many family members “die”, but I’m not making it up. I’ve been an excellent student. I would rather be with my family right now. ",39,202,490.50720380514304,college
In memoriam of the three lives stolen at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill,,5,202,1708.9074005644025,college
How it feels during finals,,0,202,2358.144263990328,college
Big oof,,15,207,168.79721537921716,college
"Got 0% on my first calculus exam, should I drop?","I am very angry and upset right now. I feel pretty dumb honestly. What happened is this:
I took a calculus test. I felt decently prepared. while I am not perfect with calculus, I felt confident that I scored at least 70%. When I got my test back, it said 0%. My professor gave out a solution key to every one, and when looking at it I saw that I worked out a lot of the problems very similar
to how he did.

I went to him after class to ask him to look at it and he said he wouldnt have any time until
2pm. At 2pm, I went to his office and he was VERY angry and said he had to eat lunch.

After 40 minutes of waiting outside of his office, I knocked once more to the same response - he said he was eating his lunch and seemed very upset. I apologized nervously (as I 
was looking to get on his good side to look at my test)

When I finally was able to sit with him, he said he didn't have time to look over the whole test, and told me he would only give me points for 2 problems that I felt he made mistakes on. i showed him a problems in which I worked through over half
of the solution correctly, and asked if there was any sort of partial credit. For example, I made a mistake by saying 9x+6 as the answer,instead of -9x+6. He refused to give me any points for anything and told me that I might have to drop the class because of the grade scale.

The grading scale:
3 exams worth 100 pts each, and a final exam worth 200 points.

What do you guys think I should do? I just paid $1,200 tuition for that class alone and I'm so sad and upset that I already failed a test. If I stay in the class I might be stressed as fuck to get all A's the whole time, but if I drop I will be behind on my graduation. 

EDIT: The class average was a 37% for our section.


Update: I went ahead and scheduled an appointment with the head chairman of mathematics of my school. I said down and explained my whole situation as honestly as I could, and showed him my exam and the solution key. He told me that my professor has been teaching for 30 years, but these last few years he's been very well known for these types of complaints from students. He suggested I drop the class and really work on my calculus skills for next semester, and even gave me a lot advice and motivation for moving forward. As for a refund, he said there's nothing he can do because it's up to the registrars office. I read every comment and I appreciate each and every body who left a comment so much. I thank all of you guys for the help and support. You guys really helped me put my foot down and actually talk to someone about this. Bless you guys",90,203,759.0534769532912,college
My college is closing down.,"The President just called all the students into the auditorium and announced it. Just like that. No warning, not even for the faculty and staff. There were prospective students touring campus *this morning*. Students had already been admitted for next year. They hired new faculty for next year. *There was no warning whatsoever*. I'm graduating at the end of the year so I'll be fine but the poor underclassmen have to scramble to get new homes. And all the faculty and staff, many who live on campus now have three months notice to find somewhere else. Whole campus is going to be sold, probably the thousands of acres of beautiful wilderness turned into McMansions or some shit. Fuck.

This school has a $94 million endowment, regional accreditation in good standing, and a 114-year history. All SLACs are suffering financially, we are just among the first dominoes to fall because we're rural and single-sex. This is a warning to all of you who go to small liberal arts colleges: none of you are safe. ",96,204,1689.1651088977355,college
PSA: Let people leave their class before you start walking in.,"Don't cause grief to other students trying to get to another part of campus. Try to be mindful, since you're already at your class.  If not then you're in a traffic jam at the door, and it's awkward for everyone.

Made this handy list:
https://www.reddit.com/r/college/comments/51lpob/college_etiquette_for_freshmen_and_others/
",36,202,1135.3852477866246,college
"Six years ago I'd failed out of college twice, my GPA was <2, and I'd only passed ~30% of my classes. On Saturday I received my degree.","I know a lot of people struggle and stress at the end of semesters when they start crunching numbers and see they might fail a class. That *is* something to take seriously and remedy quickly, something I wish I had done, but I wanted to encourage those who are struggling: You can come back from bad grades if you set your mind to it and put in the effort.

You're welcome to AMA about my time before/after the turnaround, but the general summary is that I came to college with no clear goal and *definitely* no work ethic. I chose a major that was somewhat interesting and struggled along. The coursework was easy, but I was just never enthusiastic about showing up to class. A few teachers bought the various sob stories I came up with, but after a few semesters of a clear pattern, no one was listening anymore. I was forced to academically withdraw for a minimum of one year. I did so, and returned promptly, stating in my appeal to be readmitted that I had realized what I had done wrong and was dedicated to fixing the problems.

*Nope.* Same old fuck-up me did it again. After just a few missed classes panic gripped me and I fell into a deep depression. Depression's easy to ignore when you have World of Warcraft.

I was forced to academically withdraw again, and I spent the next few years playing WoW 18 hours a day and losing more and more ground in real life. No job, dead-end relationship, and no prospects to return to school.

I can't say what changed, but one day I realized I wanted and deserved more. Unfortunately nothign had changed yet, but I at least had the common sense to see a school counselor and ask what they recommended. They had me take a series of personality tests, asked me abstract questions about goals I might wish to achieve in life, etc. and matched me to various fields that would work well for my goals and personality. My major (Criminal Justice) was not there, *everything* was saying science and academia, which is terrible because I'm bad at math and science *and* clearly can't handle being a student, let alone a teacher, right?

I still needed a science credit to graduate, though, so I took a Nutrition course. My God the change it created in my life. I realized that dietetics as a field existed and I was off like a shot. I changed my major despite it adding three years to my degree, I had to take lots of remedial math and start from scratch on general science courses. However, this time I had *passion* for what I was doing. I did *so well* in my courses since switching my major that I raised my GPA from a ~1.2 to a 3.2 (not an easy feat when you have nearly 200 credits factored in, a large amount of which are early failures), I studied abroad on scholarship, I had a paid research position, I was a TA for my department, I won various awards for my research, I was chosen as a nutrition-specific Writing Fellow, etc. etc.

#TL;DR: 

**You can come back from hardship.** I know that when you see your grade slipping in a class or you're not getting what you anticipated it can seem like the world is crumbling around you and you can't possibly bounce back, but you *can*. Just find where the problems lie (for me it was lack of passion and a desirable goal, for you it may be something different) and fix those before you spend too much time and money digging yourself deeper into a hole. You can climb out of some surprisingly deep holes, but it will be far easier if you climb out early. ",18,204,1261.697979268106,college
"What are some of your best ""college life hacks""?","This can be anything such as how you study, small things you do to cut corners on expenses, things you do to make your college experience easier. ",73,199,1221.4163010273653,college
"Those that started University/College later then the usual freshman age of around 18, did you still enjoy college socially and have a good experience?","Considering going to University when I'm like 23-24 wondering if I'll still be able to enjoy University socially and have the ""college experience""",128,201,336.3181413051431,college
"Would sending a ""thank you"" to my college's office of financial aid be frowned upon?","I'm currently a rising junior at a liberal arts college that has around 1000 undergraduate students. Students have been receiving their financial aid packages recently, and I was just notified of mine a few days ago. Despite some concern I had about how my income from my previous summer job might impact my financial aid package, I still received a very generous amount from my college. Without the financial aid that my college has offered me over the past three years, I wouldn't have been able to attend college, let alone an out of state institution, without incurring significant financial debt. As such, I feel incredibly grateful and indebted to my college's office of financial and would like to thank them.

&#x200B;

Essentially, my question regarding this situation is whether or not it would be strange to thank them, and what the best way to do so would be if I did thank them. I understand that the people working in the office often receive harsh, critical emails and phone calls from students that do not receive significant financial aid, or are given a reduced financial aid package, and that a happy email expressing gratitude may be welcoming. That being said though, I still have to complete my junior year of classes and wait for my financial aid for my senior year to arrive, and I don't want to appear as though I am trying to influence their next decision. My only intentions would be to express appreciation because they have done a lot in allowing me to attend an institution of higher education, even if their process for allotting financial aid is fairly formulaic.",23,199,87.19760889773568,college
College ruining my creativity. Need some tips yo!,"Evening fellas, I used to be a really creative person. As in creatively artistic, draw and paint when I was in high school. However since university has me packed with study, finding work, volunteering, travel etc, I done less of this and prioritised non artistic acts. I feel like I lost my creative touch for the fine arts. I even find it hard to be unique, pick up a pencil and draw something random with no worries.  Any way to revive this?

Bob Rosses please help.",39,204,328.36372000884677,college
My dad suggested starting a Go-Fund Me for my college tuition. I'm speechless.,"My mom is not involved in my life, and my dad has always been a single parent. He probably makes around 70-80k a year. A few months ago, he had to take out a 20k loan for my younger sister so that she could attend a prestigious beauty school.

For the past 2 years, I've been attending a community college that has been relatively inexpensive. This summer, I got accepted to my dream University. While my dad was excited to hear the news, he was a bit nervous about the cost of tuition. 

He emailed me and suggested we should start a Go-Fund Me account for my tuition. He said we could send it to family and friends, and possibly get donations from strangers. He wants my input on it. Honestly, I'm speechless. I am NOT okay with asking people for money... I would get loans or apply for more scholarships before I ever accepted something like that.

Reddit, I know that college is going to get very expensive for me soon. Are there any things I can do to help get money for tuition, like applying for scholarships? 

UPDATE: Dad decided not to do the Go-Fund Me idea. I still want to look at financial aid options and potential scholarships. Is there anything else I should do? I’m tired of feeling guilty for wanting to go to my dream school. 

**NOTE: My dream school is Texas A&amp;amp;M University. I’ve been attending a community college 10 minutes away from A&amp;amp;M for 2 years. I want to go to Vet School, and it’s the only one in Texas. I plan on applying to Vet Schools out of state too. I got accepted as a transfer for Fall 2018, and my major is Animal Science. ",92,202,484.2924005644023,college
Do I save money/time if I have a semesters worth of ap credit?,"So I have 17 hours from ap, and I was wondering if it saves you money. Does it also save you time, because if I have a semester of credit, does that mean I can essentially skip my last semester year?",36,199,103.3026436199579,college
I'm Feel Unsafe When I Come Out of My Dorm at Night?,"So, I guess it might just be me being one of the stupid freshmen of the campus and thinking everyone's out to get me, but whenever I leave my college dorm at night, there's some guys standing near the elevator that takes you out of the housing area. As I left my room to get over there as there was a college event happening downstairs at the dorms. One of the guys saw me and put his hand into his pants where his crotch is. That was probably just what guys do or something, I guess, and ignored it.

​

After a little bit in the college event, I decided to head back in for the night and told my roommates before going back up through the elevator. When I came back out of the elevator and moved to where my dorm hallway is, there was only one guy there and he slowly went to following me down the hallway, and boy, am I so glad that there are security doors for each hallway with dorms, because I quickly hurried into my dorm's hallway for the night and the guy just sat there when the door closed, cussing out a single word when I head in and hurried into my dorm. I'm believe he was just pretending to be on his phone at the time.

​

Maybe I'm just overreacting and nothing's actually happening. But I would like some advice either way. Should I take this issue to the Security office or just let it slide?

​

***Giant Edit: Okay, so I noticed all the comments I've been getting and honestly, I didn't expect my situation to blow up on reddit like it did. I was expecting maybe 2-3 people to pass on advice to me and nothing more. I didn't expect to come back from a class to see my reddit topic blowing up with over a hundred upvotes and multiple comments telling me what to do. It means a lot guys, thank you. I went to the security office for this issue and should have it looked into to see if it's a case or not.***

***To those that are questioning whether or not if there's security cameras; yes there is. My situation was more than likely caught on camera and I told them the time when it should've occurred as well for me. Unfortunately, I didn't know what the guys looked like and only remembered one of them having shorts or whatever on. I was too busy at the time being paranoid and rushing off back into my dorm.***

***And yes, it could possibly be that I was being just plain paranoid and the guys are innocent. I already took the issue to security however. If they have reasons to be suspicious of them, they'll act on it, but for now, there is nothing else I can do but maybe wait to see if anything comes up. And don't worry, I now know that guys have to readjust themselves at time because well, they have balls and that's uncomfortable at times. The reason it made me uncomfortable was the fact that as soon as he saw me, he went into his pants to grab his crotch. He is NOT the same guy who followed me to my dorm. It was a different guy. The reason that guy made me uncomfortable was the fact he was slowly walking behind me instead of moving up to the door as if he's waiting to be let in. It was in the middle of the night, and I was by myself in that general area with the guy. And as I said, it could be that the guys are innocent and weren't attempting to do anything wrong.***

***And yes, I do have campus security call poles everywhere, but not in the housing itself. I'd have to go down to the office itself to notify them of my problem, and I wasn't willing to turn around and deal with the guy head on if the case turns out to be true of malicious intent. And with the issue of my roommates unfortunately being victims of sexual assault, I had a heavy feeling of foreshadowing over my head since then, so that made my paranoia even worse at the time.***

***Either way, if the guys are truly innocent, then it is the fault of mine and I'd apologize to them if I remembered who they are if security was bad towards them, but if not, well...***

***Thanks once again to everyone that was concerned enough about me to tell me what to do and helped me out. It means a lot, especially to some measly freshman like me who don't know what they really want to do in life, much less how to handle a creepy situation like that.***

Edit: I also just noticed that I made a error in my title in the early morning when I made this topic. I wish I could fix that. My writing professor would probably be ashamed of me.",55,196,413.497979268106,college
"Seniors, what is one thing that you’re surprised has changed since you were freshmen and one thing that you are surprised has stayed the same?",Can be academic or social or anything else really. Just thinking about this as I go into my senior year. I think I’m happily surprised some of my hobbies and interests from high school are still the same and that also I’m a lot more confident than when I was a Freshman. ,66,198,543.9937084347727,college
Career Fair,"Man. I feel really defeated after attending a career fair today! I realized how unimpressive me and my resume are. Also realized how awkward I get in that type of situation. I had my pitch, research, and confidence perfected last night and it left my mind as soon as I entered the building. Anyone else?",18,193,365.0034885273653,college
Anyone else met a lot of people but made absolutely no deep friends?,,41,198,747.7870070458838,college
I think my roommate masturbates when I’m in the same room?,"Every night I hear a rhythmic motion coming from under my roommate’s blanket that sounds like a person scratching his thigh, along with soft grunting. This goes on for like 7 minutes every night. I’m starting to suspect the worst.  How do I bring up the subject without sounding accusatory or awkward?

Edit: Talked to my roommate about it; he denied doing it while I was conscious, but said he did it early in the morning when I wasn’t.  Either way, he has agreed to not do it when I’m in the room.",61,195,263.7682686199579,college
Does anybody else wish they liked partying?,I've tried it a few times and I don't think it's for me. I just genuinely did not have fun. But I always feel like I'm missing out because there are so many people that get so much enjoyment from it.,42,197,355.32767834218015,college
What was the most surprising class in college that had a real impact on you outside of your major?,,119,200,428.3470070458838,college
Roommate missed first class of the semester. How did your first day of classes go?,"Last night, my roommate decided it was a good idea to drink and stay up late even though he had a 9am this morning. He told me before he started drinking to make sure he was up by 8 to get ready, so we could walk to our 9am's together. He fell asleep on the couch around 3am after a night of drinking. I was up at 6am to workout and after getting ready, making breakfast, and cleaning, he was still asleep by 8. Tried waking him up, but he said he couldn't and would not be going to class. He just woke up an hour ago and realized that the class he missed takes off points on his final grade for every class you're absent. He's a junior and was unable to make it to his first class. 

How did your first day go? Hopefully better than my roommate's.",70,197,786.259692231069,college
Anyone else not hang with their friends as much in the summers during college?,"During high school it felt like I was doing something every night during the summer with my friends, and now that I just got done with my first year, I spend more nights doing nothing during the summer than I used to. It’s not that I had a fall out or anything bad happened with my friend group, but I just feel like we don’t do everything together like we used to.",24,194,132.79617371255048,college
Here are the top 20 universities where students are turning to 'Sugar Daddies' to help pay tuition,,40,194,218.33116213847643,college
"""In today's society . . .""","STOP BEGINNING YOUR ESSAYS WITH, ""In today's society.""

\--signed a teacher who wants to throat-punch people when she reads this.",45,198,373.9079098236616,college
1.87 GPA -> Army -> Grew up -> Scared about college,"So my high school GPA was a fucking 1.87, I did not care in the slightest about anything. Rich white kid who wanted to be a soldier. I became a medic and then progressed to dominated my job. I’m confident, responsible, and I developed a solid work ethic. I have had some life experiences that have forced me grow up. In 9 days my four year stint will be over and I’m terrified that the mistakes of the old me are going to cripple who I am now. I’m worried that even with community college I won’t be accepted into a reputable school. I’ll do anything to follow in my fathers footsteps and go into an UC school. I know I’m far behind the power curve, is it possible and what can I do to get there? ",66,193,504.4087200088468,college
How do you handle burnout? I'm at a point where I don't care about anything anymore.,"I know, I'm wasting money and an opportunity at an education. But I just can't bring myself to care. 

I didn't turn in a paper worth 10% of my grade last week and I felt nothing. It wasn't a matter of not knowing I needed to do it. I even liked the topic. I respect my professor and like the class. I just didn't do it. 

I don't know how to get past this apathy. I can't really motivate myself to do much of anything. Even video games are just exhausting. So I just don't want to do anything except sleep. I recognize that this may have consequences in the future and my future self will probably regret it, even if I feel nothing now so I want to see if I can get past it.

I tried seeing a school counselor a few weeks ago but she wasn't very helpful - mostly just dismissive of the feelings I mentioned. I may try to go to the counseling center again but typically they have a 3-4 week wait period especially as we get close to finals, so more immediate suggestions would be helpful.
",28,192,691.5624237125505,college
Has anyone else had experiences with arrogant freshmen?,"This is pretty embarrassing because I’m a freshman in college myself, but my non-business major friends really don’t like the business majors—which is the program I’m in.

They’ve just had experiences with people who keep judging them by their majors and laugh at people who want to be therapists and wish people luck with “paying bills for the rest of their lives”.

Like some of these majors aren’t even “useless”. Nursing?! You’re going to call NURSING useless?! Seriously?!

Others don’t say it outright but you can see the look on their faces when they say, “Oh, you’re in _education_?” UGH.",95,192,715.3964399162542,college
Do college school days go by extremely faster than high school days?,"In high school, things used to be one day at a time. Now, I feel like my mind is working one week at a time because things move so fast. When a project was due by Friday and it was Monday in high school, that was a LONG time. Now, it's feeling like the next damn day. ",33,195,898.4284653792172,college
Accused of using my phone during test - grade is now a zero,"On Monday in my math class we were taking a test, before class started at 8, I put my phone in my back pocket. During the test I only touched it once, which was to move it back in my back pocket because I felt it sliding out. My professor saw me put my phone into my back pocket (didn’t move it anywhere else except INTO my pocket) and when I finished my test she asked me why I was using my phone in the beginning of class. I was so confused when she asked me because I only used it BEFORE class. She mentioned to me she saw me put it in my pocket, which it was already in my pocket to begin with but just sliding out. I remembered and told her that I felt it sliding, I did not use my phone during the test. She told me she believed me and next time there will be consequences, I agreed and thought next time I’ll just put my phone in my backpack. Today, she posted grades from the test, and it appears I have a 0. I showed work for EVERY problem, even the obvious ones. I was one of the last people done. The only thing that I can think that would raise suspicion to me using my phone is that I write notes on a spare sheet of paper so I don’t forget what I just studied as soon as the test it handed out, as I have been doing since freshmen year of high school. I have no idea how to address the situation. I’m thinking I should talk to her after class tomorrow, but what happens if she doesn’t believe me or change my grade? What do I say to her? What should I do? Should I ask an academic advisor for advice before coming to her? What should I expect? 

UPDATE: I was one of the few people who she only graded this morning, fortunately it had nothing to do with the phone situation. I appreciate all of the replies! I got a 96!!!!",20,194,22.789252416254193,college
Those who double/triple/etc majored in contrasting fields: what are you doing now?,"I'm engineering and art, lots of coursework and internship exp in the public sector (ie where most international relations/political sci students intern). Interested in law and policy. ",58,193,385.03169454588385,college
Do you ever just not check your school email because you’re scared?,"My way of dealing with conflict in an academic setting is avoidance, and I know that’s not good. ",26,194,527.839217694032,college
Library on campus has a room where you can take naps. I woke up to this note next to me ... I didn’t know I snore :/,,32,192,211.7438473236616,college
Degree question,"So I’m currently studying economics and politics. Recently, I’ve gone through “mathematical maturity”. I can’t describe it but mathematics has just become a lot easier. I’m finding maths a lot easier to understand and I don’t know why. Current QCA/GPA is 3.25. I’m thinking of repeating a year and taking mathematics instead of politics. I plan to go into finance after college. I’m currently in second year. Should I finish my major and pursue a masters in finance ? or repeat a year and take maths instead of politics ? Has anyone been in a similar situation ? I’m taking online math modules at the moment and everything has just clicked for me recently, weird feeling. 

Thanks for everyone’s advice, you guys have really rationalised the situation and explained things very clearly for me. I’ve decided to take additional finance and statistics modules aswell as continuing on with my current degree and not repeat a year and change my coarse route for the  meantime. ",67,190,241.49736584218013,college
Lunch with Dad on move in day?,"So I’m not sure what to do. My move in day is from 9am-12pm. My parents are divorced and I know they will feel awkward being in the same room together so my mom and grandma are helping me move in and my dad is coming after for lunch. However, I’m not sure if I want to go to lunch because I don’t want to miss out on meeting people and stuff. It’s probably not a big deal I’m just not sure what other people do with their parents, and I don’t want to tell my dad that I don’t want to have lunch with him, like I still want to see him on move in day. What should I do? ",64,195,434.3724352866245,college
Tomorrow I start my last semester of college,I don't know what to say,26,193,647.7484538051431,college
The horror after you sign up for a dorm and realize you will no longer be able to poop in the comfort of your own home...,anyone know any tricks to cope? ive never shat in a public restroom before..,30,193,725.8876899162542,college
How badly do you need this extra credit?,,11,191,1282.2545764903282,college
I need to try this next semester,,23,191,224.8391713977357,college
How do so many people sleep so little?,"I'm a freshman and I'm always sleeping. I'd say I have great time management skills so I'm never staying up late into the night working on something. I'm always in bed by 10, but I don't end up waking up until 8:30 or 9:00. When I go to bed I'm tired, when I wake up, I'm tired. I've been trying to get up at 6:00 each day, and when I do, I feel great. Problem is, when I wake up at 6 for 2 or 3 days in a row, it feels impossible to do it for the rest of the week and I end up needing to recharge. I don't drink energy drinks, pop, or coffee. Are those the secrets for people surviving on such little sleep? I see all these people saying they only got 5 hours a sleep, and yet they look wide awake.",53,192,733.3361852866245,college
Keep pushing everyone,Most of us only have about a month or so left. Keep pushing everyone! ,31,191,1075.1218565829208,college
What is the worst mid semester grade you've successfully recovered from?,"With it being about half way through the traditional semester I figured this would be an interesting topic as the drop deadline is quickly approaching. Some students are probably staring at their average and wondering ""Can I bring this 22.4 weighted total grade up to a C?"" With that being said:

- What class were you in?
- What was your lowest grade in the class?
- What did you end up passing with?

Hopefully this will encourage some of us to stick it out or make 600 IQ big brain drop moves.",72,192,1.523997786624564,college
Just failed my junior year of college and I'm stuck.. HELP PLEASE,"guys, I honestly feel so trapped right now and have no idea what to do or where to go from here which is why I am here.

Throughout college, I had a pretty average grades (B range) up to this point, but then when my junior year started, I was introduced to cannabis. In order to escape my responsibilities during the year, I smoked weed every day, and wasn't able to stop myself even though I saw my grades dropping. To this moment, I still don't understand how I let this happen because it has never happened before. I'm also now 6k in debt to my college because they checked the attendance and found out that I hadn't been attending classes, and so they retracted part of my financial aid for the year. The worst part of it is my parents don't know anything yet, and they've been paying for my apartment here for the past year, so I have no idea how I can face them again..

I know I fucked up beyond belief, and I'm not looking for sympathy, but if anyone could give me some advice on where to start or what to do, I would be eternally grateful. Please help me Reddit.",121,192,519.0599121384764,college
I finished my last final of my undergraduate career.,"Its taken me a bit longer than I would have liked at 5.5 years, but I finally finished! I start work on Tuesday but I'm still looking for other opportunities. 

Now what do I do with all the time at home that I won't have homework or need to study?",21,191,670.8376899162541,college
Finals week at Columbia lol,,21,189,1255.3215093606987,college
Day one of my university's food drive and we have already received this e-mail,,4,190,2025.1372038051431,college
Hats off to my chem prof for making the final take home,"Linda, you fed us doughnut holes and kept us awake during an 8AM all quarter long. When it snowed us out of school for a week, you stayed on your email until past midnight answering questions to the slides you posted. You gave us extra credit on every assignment you could and made us comfortable learning new material. The entire class's test scores, with the tests being standardized through the department, we're 15% higher. 

This morning you said there was a printer error and you posted the long answer section of the final online. I still can't tell whether you meant for it to go that way, but either way, bless you, Linda. You're the reason we're hanging in there and you just saved all our sad tired asses. ",20,187,215.80279408292085,college
My supervisor published my work as his own,"I’m a psychology student. I graduated last year and  I am currently doing my Masters degree at a different university to my undergraduate degree. I found out yesterday that my old supervisor has used everything from my dissertation and published it in a good journal with no mention of my name throughout the entire paper.

I did everything. He used my data, my graphs and my results. Most importantly though he used my idea. There is a section in the paper that talks about how useful the experiment is because of the novel approach that the study included - and it was all my idea. 

Quite frankly, I’m pissed. Am I right to be? And if so what do I do about it? 

Thank you. 

",26,186,454.48475010143943,college
Passive aggressive roommates tell me to follow their rules or to move out,"I walk home in my apartment and i see a bunch of hostile things on the living room board. These are all their house rules. I only broke 3 of them. Yes I removed their laundry from the dryer one time because it was in there all day and my stuff was in the washer because of her. They get mad cuz i hand wash my dishes which is dumb bc i use my own dishes so i can wash my own dishes how i want. They don’t like that i use my own trash bag in my room and they want me to take out their trash in the living room even though i don’t use that trash can. I’m just not gonna clean up after them, I’m not their mother.

Idk what to do, talking to them doenst work, they are very entitled and immature. I’m stuck in this lease until the summer and i can’t move into another building because everything else is full.  I talked to the management, they said all that can help is talking it out and that doesn’t work with these females

We all pay for our own rooms separately, they act like they own the whole entire apartment. 

https://imgur.com/a/oJLjYEw",119,188,268.790629731069,college
What was your biggest mistake/screw-up in college,"What was the moment where you went ""oh fuck""",151,187,601.3487431569949,college
Does anyone else feel like they just want to get out of here and graduate?,"I'm currently attending an Ivy and studying CS as a freshman and I'm just done. The lifestyle of being a college student just sucks and I feel like my entire life is on hold learning about stuff I don't even care about. I spend way more time than I want to studying. Does anyone else in STEM feel like they just want to change majors so they can relax a bit? In contrast does anyone here in a liberal arts major share the same pain as myself? 

I literally don't give a shit what I do when I graduate as long as I work some cushy office job with air conditioning and can go workout every day after work at a reasonable time.

Is anyone else just completely checked out? ",92,188,616.9359538051431,college
What is cliche about college movies/series is the most accurate?,"Edit: delete ""is""",63,185,445.2759769532912,college
What subredits are useful for students?,"Could you advice, please? (about: college life, universities, tips, etc)",37,188,944.5471459347727,college
Is it bad for a school to have a high acceptance rate for a certain major?,"The school I am considering applying to has an average acceptance rate of 44%, but the major I’m looking at has a whopping acceptance rate of 88%. This seems suspicious to me — why would this be? Could this mean that it’s a bad program and they’re desperate to get people in? Or that the future job market is slim?",24,188,101.37274778662456,college
"Am I ""that"" guy?","This is not a ""humble brag"", I am a little bummed out by this.   


Prof today asked the room a question, and as usual no one says a thing. Awkward silence ensues.. I am praying, DYING for some one.. SOME ONE OTHER THAN ME.. to say SOMETHING. This happens all the time, to the point where even I (a  wastrel) am starting to wonder what the fuck everyone is actually doing.  


So again, long and awkward pause, and no one answers.  
So, to spare us all this maddening and awkward pause, I answer.  
Prof says that I am right, but then informs me that I am no longer to reply to his questioning of the room. Instant embarrassment.  Apparently he notices the issue too- and now I am worried I have become ""that"" guy, the annoying know everything guy.    


I realize this is stupid, but the more I think on it the more bummed out I get.  I guess the best thing to do is lay low for the rest of the semester?",72,187,387.1654445458838,college
"Missed Final, Failed Class",Fucked up really bad today and woke up at 10am today and missed my 8am final. Missing my final dropped my grade to a 59%. This class is also is in my major and I don’t know what do to next or anything...,23,188,577.2307107495876,college
stumbled across an old .txt file that I wrote in college,,11,184,631.1171112125505,college
WHO ELSE PULLED THROUGH AT THE LAST MINUTE?,"I THOUGHT I WAS GONNA FAIL STATS THIS SEMESTER LIKE LEGIT FAIL WITH AN F AND MY ASS PULLED THROUGH WITH A 73 PERCENT AT THE LAST MINUTE I'M SO HAPPY Y'ALL I FEEL SO ALIVE MERRY XMAS 2 ALL AND 2 ALL A GUD NITE!!!! 

ANYONE ELSE GO THROUGH THIS?! LETS CELEBRATE TOGETHER!!!!",73,188,674.6183380644023,college
"So someone decided to spend the night in the lab. Too well thought out to be ""time got away from me"".",,27,186,903.0074352866245,college
Should I tell my professor?,,51,181,218.1154445458838,college
Does anyone go to a college where Blackboard isn’t the system used for class?,,310,183,469.0668334347727,college
No more college for me.,"My college (a small Catholic University) had an emergency meeting today.  We were told to not register for classes for next semester, as the school was closing. Great. Not only do we have to scurry to find another college, but these classes credits don't transfer well. We'll just have to see how everything goes.",53,183,707.5816945458838,college
"Top UK University makes savings of £1,111,112 withholding the pay of 635 staff that took part in strike action, but won't reimburse students that missed a month of teaching",,4,183,478.20267834218015,college
Post all FAFSA questions here!,"The FAFSA for the 2018-2019 school year opened on October 1, 2017. If you plan to attend college during the 2018-2019 school year, you should submit a FAFSA if you are [eligible](https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/eligibility) to do so.

First time? Here's what you need to do:

1. Create an [FSA ID](https://fsaid.ed.gov). If you are a dependent student, one of your parents will need to make one as well. This is your legal, electronic signature. You cannot submit the FAFSA without one. If mom/dad has already created an FSA ID (for older siblings), they must use that one.

2. Gather all necessary documents, including bank statements, 2016 tax information, any records of untaxed income, etc.

3. Start the [FAFSA](https://fafsa.gov)! If you or your parent are given the option to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool, use it! It will drag tax information from the IRS straight to the FAFSA and save you a lot of time.

FAFSA questions posted on /r/college must be in this thread. Standalone posts will be removed.",1077,184,595.0322616755135,college
10 exam hacks I used to improve my score with less studying,"There were times when I did well in exams not because I had really mastered the subject, but really because I was pretty good at taking exams. I would feel bad about it because I felt I didn’t study as hard and did not ‘deserve’ it. It’s a weird thing to feel but I rationalised to myself that exam technique is a skill after all and I should be rewarded for having it. As much as exams are a gauge of how you well you know the material, exam techniques can push you just that bit further.

Here are some things I did or did not do in every exam to ace it beyond what I should have gotten:

1. I used momentum to my advantage. If there is one thing you should try after reading this article, it is this. Exams are like sprints. To win in a race, you go as fast as you can till you cross the finish line. Speed trumps accuracy (most of the time). What I always do in exams is to speed through the entire paper first. This allows me to check multiple times (4th point). I would take a few seconds to read each question and work on it if I can. If I can’t, I don’t waste more than 30 seconds trying to figure it out. IOW, I only do questions that I am confident in first. This is key for me, as I realised when I tried to work every single question regardless of difficulty, I slow down even at the easy ones. When I stay too long at a question, it only takes the wind out of my sail.

2. I would always do the easiest section first. When you start an exam, you are fresh and ready to go. I hate papers where the first question/section is so hard that it just stops me. So I would ask myself which section has the easiest questions, and work from there. Thankfully, most exams are structured that way, but I don’t let the structure of the paper determine how I attack it.

3. Annotate questions. As I am plowing through the paper, I would mark or annotate questions based on how well I can answer them. I developed a simple system which allowed me to mark down what I knew was definitely correct, which I will review last, questions that I am slightly unsure of, and questions that I cannot do at all. This clear defining allows me to go back and re-do the right questions to ensure my time is best utilised to get the maximum results.

4. I would check my work at least once, usually twice. Because of momentum, I am able to finish my exams usually in half the time given or less. Then I would go back to the questions that I was completely stumped by, which if I can at least try a little, may give me some marks purely based on luck/effort. Then I would look intensely at the questions I have answered but was not 100% on. Finally just a quick glance at what I know for sure is correct.

5. Time management without doubt is key, but I don’t worry too much about it. Sounds weird but hear me out: My rule is simply to do the easiest questions first and blast through the entire paper so I can use momentum and have time to check my answers. Hence I don’t watch the clock when I am doing exams. The only time I break up my time according to the questions is if it comprises of a few long structured or essay questions which may cause me to spend too much time on each question.

6. Confidence. I always believed in myself when it came to exams. This can’t be underrated. I have given tuition to many students who really just think they suck at exams. Imagine, this is how they feel even before they see the paper. No wonder they do badly. I used to have a tuition teacher for math in junior college. He was lazy and didn’t really help me much, but he did give me confidence by continually telling me I will ace the A levels (which I did). I knew he was bullshitting, but it did give me confidence, somehow. I know how useful this is so I always tell myself this silently before I walk into the exam hall: “I’ve studied as hard as everyone here, maybe even more. I deserve to do well. I want to do well. I’m here to kick ass and get 100%”.

7. MCQ tricks. Interesting fact about MCQs: They were invented by a professor in 1914 at the start of the World War I which he described as “…a test of lower order thinking for the lower orders.” So by nature, MCQs should be the easiest form of questions to answer. One easy way to be correct without knowing the material was to strike out those that I knew was wrong for sure, or the elimination technique. That reduces the number of possible options, and improves your chances of being correct by sheer luck.

8. Condition my mind/body. If possible, I would do mock exams at the same time a few days in a row before the exam. It allowed me to get used to working my brain out at that particular time. If I did not have exam papers, I would piece together random questions here and there to form roughly the number of questions and type of questions that would come out.

9. Have enough sleep. This is obvious and goes without saying, but every night before an exam, I would try to sleep 8 hours, which is my ideal time.

10. Caffeine. I used to do this disgusting habit of drinking red bulls for every exam I took to get a sugar/caffeine high. If I could redo university, I would just do a double espresso. Simple and effective, without the crazy amounts of sugar and whatever nonsense that goes into those processed drinks.

Hope it helps someone here :)",40,181,1257.4639399162543,college
The Care and Feeding of Professors,"Hi.  I am a college professor and I am procrastinating getting ready for the first day of classes, so I thought I would offer to answer any questions people have about professors, how to deal with professors, whether or not professors are human or they keep us in pods underground over the summer, you know that kind of thing.  I promise to be honest and not judgemental.

Edit:  I am so glad to see all these questions and all the other profs who have been answering!  Keep asking questions, we may be a little slow in responding with the semester about to start but I will make sure to check the thread every once in a while!",162,185,57.14324547180975,college
How can an adult start going to college?,"Ok a little back story. I am in my 30’s, and never attended college. I have been wanting to go back to school so I can advance my career. Currently I am “Manager” in a finance company and won’t be able to take the next step without a college degree. If you are currently an adult in school and know how to start getting back into school please let me know. ",61,183,313.902180656995,college
advice for college freshman.,What are some tips for success in college?,85,185,357.36775936069864,college
What's a good way to catch up on/review Calculus?,,51,180,470.36094223106903,college
A Graph of speakings skills as one progresses through school,,13,181,2061.969634360699,college
"People Who Majored in ""Useless"" Degrees, Where are you now?","Just trying to get some help for one of my relatives who has a BFA from a state college. What did you do with your degree, and how did you get to where you are now?",109,182,468.23385889773573,college
How do you survive college without money for food?,"I currently don’t have a job and I have to rely on different clubs and the pantry everyday just to even get a snack to eat! I’m waiting for my financial aid money to come through but until then I literally have nothing.

Also extra note: Does anyone know any side hustles that I can start to just get some side money so I don’t have to go through this? 


Update 1: WOW so many people here to help! It brings me hope! I just woke up and I forgot to note that I currently sleep in my car because I am a transfer student so many of the on campus luxuries are not available to me. I am in the process of securing an apartment to live in but only until the financial aid come through. I am thoroughly researching all of your suggestions.  Also what is this VENMO that many people tell me to use? I am not the smart phone expert or something :)  Also, I found a way to do an odd job for someone yesterday and got enough to eat a meal but I am still going to try to find other things to do. The vending machines are my friend. ",92,180,530.8955602866246,college
Am I the only one here who feels that Community College is one of the most depressing places?,"It seems as if there’s no socializing, and that there’s nothing to do besides study. The student body lacks a bond unlike most 4 year schools. Just wondering if I’m the only one who thinks the same",63,181,617.3475626014393,college
"First time getting a 3.0, had to drop math because I was afraid of failing. Previous three semesters I received a 1.68, working on improving my grades.",,17,185,665.8252246384765,college
Best apps to have for college,What are the best apps to have on your phone in college ?,64,185,819.255294082921,college
I know you're jealous.,,19,180,1735.1280024162543,college
Easily the most unrelated picture on a textbook I have ever seen,,13,185,2592.719032508847,college
Eating by myself,"Is it okay if I eat by myself all year? 
Because I feel like that’s where it’s going. 

Honestly, it doesn’t bother me, but I was just wondering if I’m not the only one. ",75,178,417.3271112125505,college
"My dorm, everyone.",,22,179,1340.3282223236615,college
Will people judge me for this or am I overreacting?,"Today in class we did an assignment which asked us to write about a controversal topic. My professor asked if anyone wanted to share their thoughts and some of my peers did. All of their answers were opposite of mine. After no one else wanted to share he called on me and I was forced to state my opinion which differed from everyone elses. No one said anything about it after class but I fear my classmates will think differently of me now. My question is would you treat someone differently because of their views? Also, I am kind of angry that I was forced to share my opinion which was supposed to be private. ",60,177,398.8863704718097,college
"For those of you in relationships with people you met in college, how did you guys meet?","Reposting this from another user from about a year ago. 

As a nervous and socially anxious to-be college freshman, I’d love to here about how y’all have met your s/o’s in college.",95,176,436.5378751014394,college
Why do people on /r/colleges tend to shun those who wish to attend Ivy League or other expensive universities?,"I'm new to the whole university thing. I've only ever attended community college. But as I look to the future and the possibility of getting into a university, I can't help but to wonder why there's so much hate on this subreddit toward the more expensive colleges. I get that they're expensive to attend, but is cost really the only thing that should taken into account with these schools?

I always figured that people wanted to attend some of these schools because they were prestigious schools and highly ranked. Of course, I imagine it depends on the program or field you're trying to enter, but I'm just genuinely confused as to why \(on nearly every thread I've read\) people always shun those who aspire to attend really prestigious or expensive universities.

I'm not trying to argue on the subject \-\- just genuinely curious.",165,181,536.3665325088467,college
10 things I learned during my first semester of college!,"Hello everyone, I hope everyone is having a good break! I just finished my first semester of college and wanted to share few things I personally learned. Hopefully this can help current and future students!

&nbsp;

**1. College is damn expensive**
&nbsp;
College is expensive, and I think everyone knows that. Regardless of whether your parent are paying for them or you're getting a loan, do not waste money by not giving 110% effort. You are there to to learn and succeed, not to go out every night and fail classes. I'm not saying you can't have fun, but make sure you set your priorities straight before it's too late. If you're getting a loan, I think you should sacrifice more 

&nbsp;

**2. Talk to your parents often**
&nbsp;
We are probably all enjoying this newly found freedom in college without our parents being on our ass 24/7. Although this might be nice, you will most likely never see them as often as you did in high school. Always make sure to let them know you love them because soon they might not be here anymore. 

&nbsp;

**3. Hard work will beat intelligence** 
&nbsp;
Some people are naturally smarter, and it really does suck. But don't let this be an excuse to lowering your expectations. I have met so many people who aren't naturally smart but has worked extremely hard to get A's.  Also, if you're smart don't rub it in. It's pretty douchey. 

&nbsp;

**4. Find what studying style works for you**
&nbsp;
Just because your friends study a certain way doesn't mean it will work for you. I wasted the first month of my college frantically taking notes and realized that I'm just spitting the what my professor said onto a paper rather than trying to understand it. And most of them time, the professor will post lecture notes online. Finding what worked for me helped me save a lot of time.

&nbsp;

**5. Don't skip class**
&nbsp;
Like I said, college is expensive. It might not feel like it, but you're wasting so much money every time you're skipping class. Even if you don't think it's helpful, go. Form new relationships and get to know the teacher. Who knows, you might end up needing to ask for letter of recs from the teacher of the class you always skipped. 

&nbsp;

**6. Get out of your room**
&nbsp;
Do not stay in your room all day. There are so many people in college, there is someone who you can connect with. Make some friends. Find a date. Do something other than being in your room all day. It's not healthy and you will regret it. 

&nbsp;

**7. Find some sort of activity that will keep you or get you into shape**
&nbsp;
Exercising is not only good for looking good but it will help you get better grades and stay healthy. Don't let yourself get out of shape because it's hard to get back in. Plus it's not attractive :P. Stay fit. It's good for you.

&nbsp;

**8. Partying/drinking is not ""cool""**
&nbsp;
As everyone probably know, partying and drinking is huge in college. I'm not against them, and I personally think they can be fun. But I do have a problem with how they are praised to be ""cool"". Like some kids think it's ""cool"" to get plastered and black out and puke. They brag to their friends next morning about how ""hard"" they went and people praise them. Honestly, this is not the case. Remember if you're only doing things to look ""cool"", chances are, you're probably not cool lol. Also, everything in moderation. 

&nbsp;

**9. Keep your integrity and don't lose yourself** 
&nbsp;
You will probably change drastically throughout college. I know I did. But make sure you don't lose sight of who you are. Sure you might find new hobbies and interests, but don't be someone who you're not. Don't cheat on homework or test because you didn't study. Don't be an asshole because you think it will make you look cooler. Don't fall under peer pressure. Always make sure you put school on top of the priority list. Just be responsible.  

&nbsp;

**10. Have fun! Socialize! Gain new perspective and learn about new cultures!** 
&nbsp;
These are 4 years of life you will never experience again. If you regret doing or not doing something in high school do it! If you like a guy or a girl, ask her out! Don't be a Pu**y! If you want to be more outgoing, be more outgoing because you are starting fresh. So is everyone else! If you think it's weird to talk to people in class or anywhere, you're wrong. I'm sure you would love if people came to talk to you! Don't only talk to people you are comfortable with. Talk to all kinds of people! It will help you become a more complete person!

&nbsp;

**11. G.P.A. is just a number**
&nbsp;
I'm not saying don't get good grades, but make sure you're not killing yourself over a 4.0. Although a good G.P.A. is helpful, recruiters look at your people skills and experience. I managed to get an internship as a freshmen year  even thought I don't have a college G.P.A. thanks to my ability to talk to people. Become a well rounded person and don't pull hairs for a silly number! (People seem think I'm saying GPA doesn't matter. Of course it matters. You should always aim to have a high GPA. I'm just saying, don't kill yourself because you got a 3.9 over a 4.0.) 

&nbsp;

Thanks for reading guys! I just wanted to share my thoughts about college. This is purely my opinion so please don't think this is what everyone thinks. If you agree or disagree, I would love to talk about them! Feel free to ask any questions! Sorry if there are a lot of mistakes, I didn't proofread lol. 

Edit ** added to my number 11 about GPA. ",28,182,658.9685116755135,college
Apps college students must have in their phones?,What apps do you think every college student must have downloaded in their phone?,105,179,738.9671112125505,college
My professor kicked out 2 students on the first day of class,"My Risk class has maybe about 300 students. On the first day my professor tells us that we can't use our phones during class. That's obvious, I don't think most professor supports the use of phones during class. But obviously most students don't follow those rules. 

About 10 minutes into the class a TA cuts off the professor mid-sentence and yells ""Professor we have a student texting!"" The professor immediately told the student to leave. About 30 seconds of silence goes by and the student doesn't leave. I'm guessing they were embarrassed or in shock of what just happened. The professor then again over the podium says, ""I will not continue my class until you leave my classroom."" The student left shortly after. I looked around the room and realized that there were 6 TAs watching the students like hawks the entire time. After that incident another student was caught maybe 30 minutes later. Same treatment, he was told to leave and was embarrassed by the situation. I understand that phones are annoying, but I've never seen a professor take the phone policy so seriously. 

Have you guys had any professors similar to this?",93,178,274.9645417681061,college
College Majors Megathread!,"Hope everyone is having a fantastic summer.   


  
I have been noticing a lot of questions, particularly from incoming college freshmen, regarding majors they're interested and the pro's and con's between different majors\- or whether 2 majors go together, or if a major/minor goes together, etc.   


I think it is a good idea to have a megathread discussing college majors. Not only will there be people here that will be willing to answer questions based on their own experiences in the major (or what they know about different majors)\- but I hope that people can scroll through and learn information about a variety of different majors. This will hopefully be a good resource! As I graduated with a CS degree I will be more than happy to answer any questions regarding that major. I'm sure some other members of this sub will chime in about their own majors.   


  
Things to do in this thread:   


  
* Ask if you are a right fit for a major   


  
* Ask about pro's and con's between different majors   


* Ask about job outlooks and salaries for different majors 


* Ask about the classes each major typically requires 

* Ask about workloads of majors and people's personal experiences

* Anything related to majors that isn't above! 


Also- feel free to just leave a comment explaining your experience in a particular major! This does not have to be Q&A. Just leave any information that might be helpful to students regarding picking a major. 


---- 

Back To School Megathread will still be posted later this summer for general freshmen questions! Probably around late July/Early August. To remove clutter mods may remove major-related posts and redirect users here. ",815,177,494.09384732366163,college
Students who constantly make little comments/insignificant questions throughout the lecture are extremely distracting and can ruin a lesson,"I have two classes where one person seem to think they have to share some anecedote or ask a unrelated question to the professor. They waste time and run the flow of a lesson that it makes it impossible to concentrate. 

I don't know how to deal with this. ",30,179,643.998916768106,college
"Answered exam questions in cursive, professor gave me low score","Need some advice. I have NEVER had any problem with a single professor, I've enjoyed my time in school and have never failed an exam.

However, I just got passed back an exam that I effectively made a 25% on. I was shocked to see that score on Blackbord. Upon further inspection, the majority of answers which were marked wrong were correct. They were worded similarly, if not exactly like my peers who received great marks on the exam, so I approached my professor politely and asked if he could look over my test, there appears to have been a mistake with the grades. He didn't take my exam, instead remarking ""if I can't read it quickly, I'm not going to grade it"" and walked off. We were not allowed to keep the exams, and I feared taking a picture would label me as a cheater.

Here is what my cursive handwriting looked like on the exam. It's not perfect, but I don't believe its illegible:  
[https://imgur.com/a/pUlY42c](https://imgur.com/a/pUlY42c)

My question is, what do I do? Should I go back to him, and more forcefully request he grade my exam again. Do I offer to rewrite the exam in print? Do I go to an administrator?",31,180,248.86696074958752,college
Has anyone gotten in trouble for watching pornography while using campus wifi?,"At my university the WiFi can’t be used to view pornography. I usually just switch the switch the WiFi off on my phone but I forgot and viewed porn on it a few days back. The rule is that we get locked out of our school accounts if we’re caught. I‘m pretty sure this is a somewhat common policy, but I’ve never heard of anyone getting caught. I honestly doubt IT cares unless it’s illegal with everything else going on",61,177,123.80623158292086,college
Those moments when you are studying late at night and you suddenly get it makes college worth it,"When it is late at night and you suddenly get something, it feels really good. Those moments make college worth it even with all the pain and stress ",21,177,570.8863588977357,college
Absolutely no social life and im completely happy?,"So a typical day of mine includes sleeping, eating (alone), doing homework (alone), relaxing in my dorm, and gaming. Rinse and repeat. I can go days, or even a week, with barely talking to anyone. Even though this seems extremely unhealthy according to societal norms, I'm perfectly happy. I like being independent and my introverted nature makes me quite happy to spend time alone. Of course, occasionally I go out with some friends, but this is only occasional. Anyone else feel the same way? Should I be happy living life like this? Should I change? is this normal?",32,176,615.6449352866246,college
Good luck to all who have exams this week!,,11,176,892.533129731069,college
"r/college, are you interested in AMAs?","Dear r/college \- once in a blue moon we get a request from someone for us to host an AMA (redditspeak for ""Ask Me Anything) related to a college topic.  Most recently, we mods were approached by a documentarian whose film is on ""the rise and fall of a beleaguered fraternity.""  

We almost always say no to these requests because they are invariably self-promotional at their core, and that's against our sub rules.  But, I figured I'd reach out to the community and ask if this is something you would, in fact, want.

Comment below ""Yes give us our AMAs"" or ""No leave us alone"" and tell me why.",31,174,70.14693760143938,college
[Meta] Fake It Till They Make It: Chinese Agencies Manufacture Phony Applications to US Colleges (x-post from /r/ThePaperBay),,14,177,738.3967408421802,college
Pearson is holding an end of course survey for people who used Mastering Chemistry this semester. I decided to give them a piece of my mind.,,20,173,1404.9725973236616,college
"I wish EVERY school would do this... Or, you know, make tuition less so I can actually afford to eat. That'd be nice too. ",,23,176,2443.6896227866246,college
Should I go into the medical field or be a climate researcher,"Ever since I was little I’ve had a weird fascination with the weather and drastic changes with the earth. I told myself when I grow up I want to be a meteorologist, and still to this day I love learning about the weather, climate change and geological catastrophes. I’m entering my sophomore year at community college and I’m stuck between going into the geosciences or the medical field. My parents are both in the medical field and something about it also interests me. Medicine will always be around and looking at the BLS biomedical (which is a major I’m interested in) the growth rate is outrageous; but for meteorology or climatology the rate barely changes. 
I’m scared that if I get into climate research I won’t have a job in 15-30 years, but if I were to get into medicine there’s always a need for it. 
So another part is I don’t want to be in a lab every single day, I would want a change of scenery, and that’s another thing... 

HELP I DONT KNOW WHAT TO DO!!!

Edit: this kind of blew up! I’ve read each and every comment. I’ve decided that I’m gonna stick with getting an associates in Geography and then a bachelors in computer science and environmental geoscience! If those paths don’t work out, then I’ll switch to biomedical.",35,174,82.45936815699494,college
I feel like most colleges start classes a week before mine,"Anyone else have classes starting tomorrow? Cause i don’t know anyone else who has classes start next week like my university does.


We also get out a week or two before everyone at the end of the spring semester ",157,173,423.952030194032,college
How did you study for the 'harder' subjects in college?,"I'm a freshman in my 2nd semester of Electrical Engineering. I picked it up as my major as I thought that I had a genuine interest in technology related to signals and circuits only to realize that I am grinding hard. I'm finding subjects like circuit analysis incredibly harder than the others and this is quite disturbing as it is the core subject of my second semester of electrical engineering degree and subjects like Functional English and Engineering drawing are too useless to even consider hard. Not just me, but the rest of my class is also struggling with this subject, maybe it's our lecturer but nothing can be done about that. If I keep finding core subjects of my degree as difficult as I am right now then all will be lost. I try my best in this subject, by taking notes 24/7 in the class. I have two dedicated notebooks for this subject, one for clear, concise, clean lectures and practice questions, one for noting down the lecture in the class. And I revisit the lectures on some youtube channel once in a while. Still it is not enough! What could I possibly be doing wrong? How did you pass the hardest subjects?",30,173,468.3053519532912,college
I feel embarrassed about the age that I will graduate,"I'm about to be 23 in August and graduate in December this year if  I don't hold off till spring. I know that 23 is still incredibly young, and I'm being illogical, but everyone around me is either younger then me and graduating the same time or getting their graduate degrees at my age. I'm still on my bachelor's, its only taken me four years to get it. One of my professors kind of looked down on me because he graduated at 20 and was starting on his phd at 21. According to him I shouldn't have taken a gap year, and a lot of people around me seem to agree that gap years aren't a good thing. How do I get over my ridiculous anxiety and embarrassment about graduating at 23?",194,175,475.99650936069867,college
A website that automatically searches for your citations while you write an essay/paper! [for tablet and larger devices],,2,172,492.519530194032,college
What if there was a rate my professor website but for housing?,"Hi, I'm doing a research project for my college English class and I was wondering if something like this would be effective for students. In my experience when looking for housing I have had to really search for information on off-campus apartments and the current housing search website for my school does not list everything/leaves out information. I was just wondering what people thought of a website that was more review based that included information on the apartment and the reviews would also say if their apartment had good/bad managers. Any thoughts?",14,173,593.0824352866246,college
"UCLA is the first school to receive 100,000 freshman applications",,48,172,1032.0691251014393,college
Most useful minors?,"What minors have you guys done that you feel have really helped complement your field of study?

&#x200B;

I'm thinking either business, statistics or CS for myself!",86,172,340.3424700088468,college
Best of luck to all freshman starting up soon.,"This is my university's move in weekend and it's a huge deal, huge production. I graduated last December, so I'm watching on social media. I'm really missing the whole thing. Treasure it while you can, don't wish it away, and don't make stupid decisions!",21,171,796.4684538051431,college
Living on campus after transfer from cc worth it?,"Hello I am currently enrolled at a community college in my area to save money for school. I am wanting to transfer to a university but I would not want to commute, would it be a good idea to live on campus if I live 30-40 minutes away from campus? For reference I am 23 currently and I have one year left until enrolling.

&#x200B;",49,172,193.39378945329122,college
My Professor just sent this email,,74,174,681.2801783421801,college
Better sex rules for college,"1) Condoms. Wear them. If someone is refusing to wear one or begging you not to, then don't sleep with them -- they don't care about you. If you've both been tested and you are in a monogamous relationship, and are on proper birth control, then go without them mindfully.

2) Standard STD tests often do not check for herpes I and II and sometimes other STDs, so it's important to ask what you are getting tested for at the clinic. 1 of 5 college students have genital herpes and 80% of them don't have symptoms. Many don't even know.

3) Disclose before having sex. Ask your partner if they have been tested since their last partner. If they say yes, ask them when -- if they can't tell you, they might be lying. If they say no, offer to go with them to get tested, but don't have sex with them until they are tested, even with a condom. If you or your partner has a bacterial STD such as chlamydia, syphilis or gonorrhea, seek treatment before having sex. Tell your partner if you have any viral STDs that you can't get rid of such as HIV, HPV, or HSV. Allow them time to make a decision about whether or not they want to have sex with you. 

4) Passion is easy to get sucked into, so try to have healthily timed interactions with a perspective partner. Go on dates and have fun with a person. Try not to rush things. It's okay to drink, but it spells danger for yourself if you go to a party with every intention to have sex with someone. It's too easy to make mistakes in college, so be as responsible as you can.

5) ""No"" is a complete sentence. It is not rude to refuse sex. Drinking because someone tells you you're a buzzkill will not make them like you more. Do what makes you comfortable, and try to have the foresight to think about situations before you're in them. 

6) Avoid joking about STDs. Chances are, someone in the vicinity had or has one, and you will look ignorant and rude. Remember that gossiping about someone's STD can land you in court. Same goes with sexual assault. Drop the jokes, you're not in high school anymore, and these things are reality, not movie subplots.

7) Foreplay makes sex way better, so warm up yourself and your partner. Females more easily achieve orgasm with foreplay, and males can last longer. This is a great way to bond with your partner and learn what each other like and do not like, as well as explore new things.

Add as you feel is necessary! ",32,169,801.2247269532911,college
Actual poor student cookbook.,,19,173,1765.8107338977356,college
I failed all my classes this quarter and I'm ready to just drop out,"Mortuary school is very different, first of all. I'll abbreviate quarters to Q, which is basically a semester. To help y'all understand I'll try to give a brief summary. Quarters 1 & 2 are Gen Ed, I skipped that because I transferred into Q3 with an AA from my undergrad. I was an average student in Q3-5, but Q6 is where it all fell apart for me. I got a job at a funeral home and I love every second of it. The stress, the work, the rush, I love it. I'm all lined up to become an apprentice, which lasts 2 years if you haven't graduated with an AS from mortuary school and 1 year if you have. I failed all of my Q6 classes; I experienced very turbulent burnout, a breakup, and I was focusing more on work. I'm 20 and I've been a full-time college student (undergrad and two semesters in nursing school) since I was 16; I'm so incredibly burnt out. I love my job, I want to be a funeral director, and I have a very deep passion for what I do and I want to have the right credentials. I can retake all the classes I failed in January, then in March I can sit for comprehensive exams before national and state boards. Thinking about it makes me sick. I know I should just bite the bullet and retake the classes, but mortuary school before I got my job was hell on earth for me. Even after getting my job, just walking into the school building and spending the school day at my desk gave me such bad anxiety and i'm already on a fuckload of antidepressants and anti-anxiety meds. I know that funeral directing is the career path for me; I wish my grades weren't what people focused on when gauging how passionate and motivated I am to be successful in the funeral industry.

I guess what I'm asking for is support. Has anyone out there bounced back successfully from burnout and failure?

How can I show people that my grades aren't indicative of my work ethic at my job?

I can tell my parents and loved ones are a little disappointed that I failed so much. How do I address that?

&#x200B;

TLDR; Burnout and failure. I love what I'm going to school for but I hate going after failing tremendously",15,173,393.3078519532912,college
Should I report my professor's inappropriate touching?,"I'm taking a theater 101 class this semester. My professor touches me and other students. He'll put his hands on our shoulders,  lower backs,  necks and faces under the guise of ""correcting our form"". I expressed to him that i do not like to be touched,  so he hasn't since,  but the other day after a scene he objectified me in the critique. He basically said i was attractive and asked the class if they agreed with him. It had nothing to do with the content of the scene and it made me really uncomfortable. I'm contemplating bringing it up to the department head. I have talked to other students and they agree with me that there is no reason for a professor to touch a student regardless of the department. What should I do?",61,170,352.33547926810604,college
"Does anyone else hate it when a professor refers to their class as a ""weed-out"" class?",I feel like they make the class harder than it needs to be after hearing that.,28,167,559.9365440829208,college
"what's that feeling when you're done with exam, really looking forward to play video game all night during breaks, but after a day or two you want to go back because you feel empty inside","2 weeks of exams. after the last exam, i rushed to my home and spent the whole night playing shadow of war. the day after, spent the whole day playing and finishing shadow of war

and now, i just feel empty. i know that ive done everything i had to do. 

but idk, at night i should be thinking "" ah, finally a night where i can sleep with my mind at peace "" but it was "" damn it i shouldnt sleep at 4 am ""

like ive lost a feeling of purpose.

i dont know if its a bad or good thing. anyone else? ",43,172,717.2968565829209,college
"US Redditors who went abroad for their college education due to lower tuition rates, how was your experience?","Did you feel the education you received was worth it?
How did making such a big change in your life with a new environment affect your class work? 
Where you able work and have fun? Thank you!",21,170,725.2451783421801,college
I Got a Job!,"I hope this is okay to put here, I just really wanted someone to share my news with.

So I am set to graduate this semester, an entire semester early (3 1/2 years to get my degree total). I've been looking for a job since July and to be fair, once my classes and work started, my search kind of stopped. 

I've been to one interview and was turned away. However, last Friday I went to my second interview and it was for a position I really really wanted. This past Tuesday, I got the call for the job offer and I officially accepted it on Wednesday! I'm so happy and I feel so comfortable now with myself, my education, and my future career. 

I'm really excited to finally start my career. ",36,170,727.4652130644023,college
"Anyone received a bachelors degree from a community college? If so, how are things going for ya?","I'm getting a BA from cc in business. It's affordable, the professors are amazing, and the projects are serious. What are your experiences?

Edit: I understand the backlash for ba degrees from a cc but instead of making assumptions and bringing someone down for their educational choice, do some research first.",83,172,93.89485426810604,college
"Useless college majors, what are you up to now?","""useless"" is what society would typically deem a degree. I am not an elitist. ",113,168,509.8328635273653,college
"Finished my last class for my bachelors degree, now what?","Long story short, i was 99% done with my degree and decided to drop out last minute for personal reasons failing my class.  I just returned back to school and passed the class but what happens next?  Grades were just posted, it was a pass fail class and I got a Satisfactory.  I checked my degree plan and completed all requirements and my balance is paid off in full.  I applied for graduation next month in May, but anyone know what happens when you finish your last class?  Do they send you a congrats email or something?  I guess i should be getting my degree in the mail in a few weeks right?",12,168,544.3580602866245,college
Should I tell my professor I plagiarized?,"In one of my cs classes we had an assignment due the other night, which I planned to do that evening, but ended up taking a 5 hour nap and waking up half an hour before the due date. I found the assignment online and copied the code from github, but did very little changing to the code and even left the same comments in there. I think there is a very high chance my professor will find out  what I have done. Should I talk to him about it before he grades it and finds out for himself, or just say nothing and hope he is too lazy to actually read the file?

**Edit:** I said fuck it and told him. He was super cool about it and just told me to redo the assignment. So relieved. ",17,170,1093.3976436199578,college
First Generation Problems,"Everyone likes to talk about how hard being in college is as a first generation student- and it is- but no one talks about how fucking hard it is to go home.

You stop fitting in with your family. You change and they don't. The way you talk about things, the places you go, and things you know are all different. My family doesn't even listen to me anymore, as I only have ""college ideas""

What does that even mean?? I am the same person I was before I left, and believe the same things, i can just articulate it better. But why does it matter if i'm basically barred from conversation? if now i'm annoying to the people around me. 

I want to share everything I learned! I want to connect with my family, I want them to be proud of everything I've accomplished.  It's not like i am lecturing them or correcting them, I'm just talking about things I've done or experiences I had in college like a normal person. But the more I learn, the more I go to school, the further we drift apart. 

I'm not sure why I didn't see this coming. They were confused why I went to college. They didn't understand why I chose Economics. They don't get why I do internships and volunteer and travel. They weren't even proud that I've made deans list every semester. 

It's just really hard to feel out of place at school, and then come home and know that you're out of place there now too. College has divided me between two places, and now I will never truly fit in either.",17,165,157.29435658292084,college
My dorm hall is now a war zone,"Tl;dr at end.
 
I remember the night it began. I was on my xbox just chilling for the night. Then suddenly the room burst into chaos. Finger guns pointed in every direction as men breached the door. Shouts told me to put my hands up, which I complied to. However, it was in vain, as I was finger banged  ( ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) ) moments later. 

My dormies had united into a squad, breaching into rooms and annihilating those inside for ""America, Motherfucker.""

The next night the tactical shenanigans continued. Many were banged. Until the RA on the floor above told them to be quiet. I thought this to be the end. But this was the beginning of an escalation

The introduction of two Nerf pistols caused the dormies to no longer breach rooms but attack each other. This escalated until all of the dormies had intimidating Nerf rifles. Nerf rifles so strong that they might actually sting for a second.

Being a ""civilian"" in this chaos makes it dangerous to complete once simple tasks. I once walked in between a standoff and was quickly (and voluntarily) used as a human shield. Just now, a squadron of dormies had blocked off all entrances to the floor's kitchenette, as two other squads attempted to breach. I forced my way in, which resulted in the annihilation of all inside. I then quickly fled to the room where my Xbox was, where it all began. I thought to myself ""My God... It took me five minutes to wash a damn tea spoon.""

Tl;dr: Dormies began SWATting rooms with finger guns. They got Nerf guns and fought each other. Now takes me five minutes to wash a spoon.
 


",13,167,381.75961121255045,college
"I stopped caring about my grades, any advice?","So basically, third year college student here. Ever since I started realizing I need to have less anxiety and whatever, and get better at socializing, I kinda just... idk. Anxiety, as toxic as it can be, motivated me so much... But yet I was CONSTANTLY worried. CONSTANTLY. And because I'm realizing certain things now it's as if my brain turned off a switch and now I'm forgetting certain due dates, assignments.... my grades are slipping.

I have reminders, I have a calendar, yet that never helps. & I can tolerate my degree.... so it's not like I'm unhappy or anything. Any advice?",21,165,388.21552556440236,college
I submitted assignment with despacito in contents on Blackboard - RIP myself,,11,165,510.8507223236616,college
"Mac users, you can see if your .edu email is eligible for FREE Microsoft Office 2016 that was released TODAY! PC Users you can get the latest version for free too!",,51,170,1561.1312778792174,college
Looking for some insight from peers who have been in college longer than four years,"I’ve been in college for 7 years. I started off at a community college in liberal studies to engineer to laboratory sciences. It’s been a long bumpy ride but I finally graduated and moved onto a four year school which ended up in me being dismissed from my program (clinical/medical lab science) only after a year of being in it with no chance of being readmitted. However, I’m still considered a student at the school and was suggested to change my major. 
Now from what I’ve realized over the last year was that I chose majors based upon factors around me such as family and friends telling me what was a good high paying job was rather than choosing what I was interested in. Now since I have the opportunity to choose..I have no idea what I want to do. Should I stay in STEM? Go into business? Be a chef? I’m so lost and not getting any younger.",40,166,135.3933959347727,college
Any advice? An overloaded student,"Im a 24 y/o male student taking mechanical engineering, just beginning to work on a bachelor's degree this semester. I'm enrolled in 6 classes and one lab. 16 credits. I commute to school every weekday, with a total of about 3 hours there and back a day usually.

It's the end of the third week of school and I had to skip (I'm allowed one test skip in this class) the first exam of the semester, which also looked like it was going to be the easiest of the semester. It was hard for me to do, but I had transferring trouble that caused me to be late to add classes, and extremely increased pressure from homework. Despite the little material there was, I only learned about this exam date the day before and was unprepared. I'm stressing out a lot right now because of it, it was a hard decision to make.

On top of all this, fundamental classes (Dynamics, mechanics of materials and Calc 4) are all classes I have taken, passed, and their work is showing up a lot this semester. I did not however receive a solid enough education in these courses from my previous college, despite passing.

I feel like I'm behind not in schoolwork, but in understanding of ALL my classes. I've been working harder than I've ever worked in my life: doing schoolwork on buses despite motion sickness, not playing games or giving myself any free time, barely talking to my friends. I chilled and talked with a friend on discord one night for 2 hours, and regret it the next day.

My stress is pretty high. I just want to do well. I'm trying whatever I can manage, and somehow this is considered the average curriculum here at this college. Am I doing something wrong? Maybe I'm not organized enough, any organizational tips? Any advice at all is appreciated.",40,169,391.4646459347727,college
Currently straddling a 2.9 GPA. I feel lost. What are my chances?,"Florida, 19. TEMPORARILY unemployed, but previously full time. I'm looking for another full time job. 

My ideal major is Computer Science, or Business and Finance. Ideally I want to do both but I'm not sure its realistic. 

I'm attending community college and have 28 credits with a 2.9 GPA. HS GPA was 2.4. I have failed 1 class. 

Will I be able to bring up my GPA? How can I develop better study habits? My dream is to go to a university, but I won't be able to without a scholarship or financial aid; and regardless I won't be accepted if I can't bring my GPA up. 

I'm really lost. I'm sorry. ",49,165,507.73348852736535,college
I was just contacted by a pyramid scheme. Please don't fall for these fake jobs or internships.,"Hey guys, this is kind of a PSA in case anyone doesn't know about companies like this. My friend almost fell into a place like this a couple years ago. They specifically prey on college students.

I was just contacted by a guy that saw my resume at Indeed and he sent me a description of his job post saying I should be a Financial Advisor (red flag: I am a college student with no Finance background. How can I advise anyone?)

Here is the e-mail:

Hi Andrew, 

I hope this emails finds you well! My name is Ryan Bleecher and I am the Recruiting Coordinator with McAdam in Philadelphia. The reason why I am emailing you is because I have been reviewing local resumes and your background stood out to me. Many of our most successful people, including those who are in leadership and management, have had similar experiences. I think you may have the qualities to be very successful in our Financial Advisor position here at McAdam in our Philadelphia office. I would like to personally invite you to begin our interview process. 

McAdam Financially Advanced is a fun, fast paced, and independent advisory firm that focuses on giving our client the highest level of services and world class investment management. We have an extensive training program that helps us to train people with various backgrounds/majors build a fantastic career at McAdam and learn the role of a Financial Advisor. 

The first step is to apply: 
Please send your resume to: ryan.bleecher@mcadamfa.com or by visiting our career page at our www.mcadamfa.com/careers. A member of the recruiting team will reach out to you to discuss the next steps! 

Take a look at our website, specifically some of the videos we've created that show what it is like to be ""Working at McAdam"" as a financial advisor! 

http://mcadamfa.com/join-our-team/working-at-mcadam/ 


Thanks, 

Ryan Bleecher 
Recruiting Coordinator 
McAdam 
1880 John F. Kennedy Blvd. Suite 1600 
Philadelphia, Pa 19103 
Office - 215.399.9345 
Ryan.Bleecher@mcadamfa.com 

JOB DETAILS
Job Title: Financial Advisor 
Company: McAdam Financially Advanced 

Earn the ability to create your own financial success through helping clients enjoy their own. You don’t need prior finance experience to join us, but you do need energy, great people skills, a strong work ethic and entrepreneurial spirit. We’ll provide training, resources and support you’ll need to do better than your best. 


*Being financially advanced requires a whole new level of thinking and doing.* 

At McAdam, we’ve completely reinvented the concept of financial advice to take clients and their future to a whole new level. Unlike most advisors, we go beyond the traditional focus on one’s personal and financial life. We also consider an additional, more important driver of one’s financial picture—their profession. 



*What a financial advisor does:* 
* Identifies and sets appointments with potential clients 
* Works closely with a mentor to meet with clients to assess their financial needs 
* Designs, develops, and implements a marketing plan 
* Develops a customized financial plan to address each client’s outlined goals 
* Maintains strong relationships with clients, helping them to track their progress over time 
* Provides ongoing consultation and support 
*Some of the features of this position include* 
* One-on-one training from seasoned leaders in the financial planning industry locally. 
* A comprehensive training program that includes financial planning, marketing techniques, consultative selling, client service and regulatory compliance 
* Uncapped earning potential - top advisors can make $100,000+ in their first year - advisors must be comfortable with the majority of their compensation coming from their results 
* Numerous career path options, including advanced financial advisor, compliance, field management and corporate opportunities. 
*Additional Requirements of the role:* 
* Associate or Bachelor’s degree (preferably in business or an industry related field) 
* Ability to obtain licenses 
* U.S. Citizen or Permanent Resident 
Visit our website at www.mcadamfa.com 


*Compensation:* 

$70,000 average for first year advisors, Performance-based

This is a classic pyramid scheme example. There is no salary and all of your money comes from commission. You have to put a lot of your own money in up front and the way the cards are stacked against you, you will not make a profit. You will be charged various fees (office fees, licensing fees, material fees etc...) and they will suck money right out of you. 

So, I sent the guy a reply to let him know this wasn't the place for me (He said his name was Ryan, but his email was james...@indeed) :

Hi Ryan,

Can I call you Ryan? Your e-mail says James so I'm not really sure who I am speaking to here. Anyway, thank you for thinking of me as someone that you can potentially make a decent profit from. Unfortunately, this just doesn't seem like the right pyramid scheme for me. It's not you guys, it's me. If someone is going to drain money out of me like a leech, I at least prefer it to be a company in my field. That way when I am paying you various licensing fees, office fees, etc... I can at least feel like it will be advancing me in my career path (I hope there is e-mail fee for communicating with you). Thank you for your time and have a pleasant day.

Regards,
Andrew

P.S. You guys should probably try a different lead. There is nothing about my resume that jumps out at someone and says, ""Hey, this guy can be a financial adviser."" I'd recommend a new approach, at least something that may convince the SEC to not shut you down. 

",19,164,973.1768102866245,college
Second only to Tuition,,2,166,2101.569842694032,college
Anyone here have a classmate that you can't help but cringe at?,"Goddamn fellas, in my one CompSci class, there's this particular guy that has absolutely zero self-awareness. He could be autistic, but Jesus it hurts when he gets going.

He enjoys ""challenging the professor"" about the example code, and even condescends towards him about the stupidest shit. He's also awkwardly vocal (somewhat quiet, like muttering) whenever someone asks a question that he deems silly or dumb. He did that to me the other day, and it pissed me off.

For instance, the professor uploaded code for us to study that had some exceptions getting thrown. He did that on purpose, so that we can understand interaction between methods, default parameters, optional parameters, references, etc. A simple typing of the word ""ref"" can clear the exception.

But no, after I ask the professor if he would upload today's lecture's example code, this uppity guy then says ""Will the code actually work this time, professor?"" with the most smug expression. He then starts going on about how the code is broken or something. Then the professor professionally explains and shows how it's fully functional (more or less telling him to STFU in a polite way). Then, the cringey guy says ""Yeah, well, that's not what I asked about, but whatever"", which prompted the professor to again demonstrate that the code works in full capacity, and the a simple commented-out line allowed for debugging.

Sheesh, I can't stand that guy. Anyone out there feel me?",54,165,378.2009075088468,college
In the mind of a professor.,"I'm a professor getting ready for the new school year. These are the 10 things I wish college students knew.

1. If you plan on skipping class because you are ""sick"" you probably shouldn't write a status update involving how you have a hangover. We don't count hangovers as being sick. When you have class the next day we count them as stupid. Same goes for incriminating pics. Also, don't come to campus intoxicated. If you aren't responsible enough to come to class sober, then you are likely too irresponsible to be in college. 

2. If you want to skip class, I won't stop you. You paid in advance $20+ for each lecture I give you. If you take out student loans to pay for classes you don't attend and are a chronic absentee, you are likely doing poorly in class. You are literally paying money to flunk school. Save your money; don't go to college if you won't go to class.   

3. If you are having trouble in class, come see me. I don't mind. In fact, the university requires I have at minimum number of hours to wait on you every week in my office. I'm not even doing you a favor, it's a part of my job description. Keep me company and ask me questions. It is usually good for your grade. If your prof/TA won't do this, talk to their boss. 

4. It takes me MUCH longer to grade F papers than A papers. If you're failing because you aren't trying, I'd prefer it if you just didn't turn in anything. It will save us both a lot of time, and you a lot of money. Also, I WILL get pissed off if I can tell I spent more time grading your paper than you took to write it. 

5. Over half of freshmen flunk out. You will find yourself up a creek if you have to pay back loans and you have no degree. You will be eligible for the same jobs you had in high school but now have a considerable monthly payment. You are literally worse off than if you just stayed at the burger joint. If you aren't sure you want to do college, check out programs at tech schools. You will get a job much sooner for much cheaper and you will likely make as much money as many 4 year degree holders. 

6. If something major and detrimental happens in your life, let me know. You don't have to tell me details if you aren't comfortable, but I'll be in a better position to give you an incomplete for the term, let you make up an assignment, etc... I will bend my own rules for you. I'm allowed. They're my rules. I bend them for students who need it.

7. Listen to advice from people who know what they are talking about. If you have a 2.5 GPA and are pre-med, your advisor will tell you to have a solid plan B. Have one. They are telling you that because they know you stand a minuscule chance of getting into that program/job/etc...  

8. Make use of your campus facilities. Your tuition money goes to pay for things like tutoring centers, health clinics, gym facilities, concerts, and cultural centers. You don't have to use all of them, but use some of them. You paid for it, and you may find them helpful or fun. 

9. Don't talk about your professors to other students. Every single semester I get a very loyal student who rats out a classmate for talking about me. Loyal students who like professors get REALLY upset when they hear trash talk. I won't grade you harder, but when you ask for a letter or recommendation, I will tell you no and you will have a very awkward conversation with me about your comments.

10. As a grad student I took out $11K in student loans when interest rates were really low. My monthly payment was $85. Many of you will take out $40-200K for your bachelors education. Your payments every month will be higher than what you spend on your car, or even your apartment. To minimize costs, take as many classes a semester as you can while maintaining your grades. Don't get below a C in class. Follow what your advisor says so you don't end up taking classes you don't need. Don't transfer schools if you can help it, unless it will save you a lot of money (you almost always lose classes you took when transferring). Get tutoring if you need it. If you advisor sucks, get another one. Know the course catalog for your major so you aren't relying on someone else to tell you what to take. Pay for as much of your tuition upfront as you can. 

That's about it. Hope everyone has a great fall term!",62,166,2275.8889051940323,college
The lecture was really boring,,5,164,315.0697385273653,college
Anybody else do assignments weeks in advance ?,"The second I find out an assignment is due, I try to complete it or at least start it, I tell people this and they think I’m weird or something (which I am) but that’s not the point. 

Is this not what everyone else does to stay ahead? Or are most students just procrastinators? 
",56,165,409.9175163051431,college
I graduated yesterday as a nontraditional student!,"Yesterday, I finished my last final and this semester with all A's! I'm 28 years old and went back to school for a second bachelor's (since my previous degree was in a completely unrelated field that I ended up hating, and I wanted to pursue a STEM program), finishing it in two and a half years. It was waaaay harder than my first time around, but I managed to get a nice amount of merit-based scholarships and research grants to help scrape by. I am very lucky to have several jobs lined up until I go to graduate school next fall. I know not many people will care, but I worked so hard for this and can't contain my excitement!! Good luck to everyone that has yet to take their finals!",26,167,1041.011266305143,college
A note for all the soon-to-be freshman.,"I've seen way too many stories on this sub, and heard way too many in real life, of people getting overwhelmed by school for silly reasons. So here's my advice:

1) **Get Organized**. Buy a planner before you start school. When you get your syllabus for a class, *write the entire thing in your planner*. Every date, every assignment, every project. It is a life saver and will keep you from feeling disorganized.


2) **Designate study time**. In school, I had (have) 8 hours of classes every day of the week, every year. At the end of my day, I would sit in the library or a coffee shop, look at my planner, decide what needed to be done that day, and write it down. Write it down to the minute if you have to. Even if you think you don't have anything due the next day, sit down and get organized anyway. Every single day.


3) **Don't waste your own time**. You might have a paper assigned a month in advance. If you have all the resources necessary to complete the assignment, **do it as soon as you can**. One of my classes had a term paper every semester. I would spend a sunday collecting resources, writing an outline, and pounding that thing out, almost four weeks in advance. Then I could come back to it later to revise, edit, etc. It will make your life easy, I promise. Even the toughest assignments can be drafted in a day, or even a few hours. Some of my peers brag about staying up all night the night before this thing is due, and they sound like idiots. Don't be an like them.

Some other small things...

* Buy the APA style guide. Professionalism is everything.

* Get a tutor if you need one.

* Scan handouts from your classes and organize them to use in the future.

* Keep all major assignments somewhere you can get to them easily.

* Talk to and email your professors.

* Don't buy books until syllabus week.

* Check your email. Check your email. Check your email.

* Check Blackboard or equivalent.

* Don't make excuses.


If you can't concentrate, get it out of your system. Take a nap, see a movie, go get lunch. It's not worth the stress of trying to work if you just can't do it right that second. Taking breaks is okay. If you do these things, you'll succeed plain and simple.",57,164,1216.8803866755136,college
"For those of you that stayed at home with your parents for college, do you feel you missed out on a huge learning experience?",I feel like I missed a huge opportunity. Staying in a dorm is super expensive so I went local. But I think I would've grown up a lot if I dormed rather than staying home. ,60,161,204.81022463847643,college
Does anyone else get annoyed when professors don't update their online course site until the last minute before classes begin?,"Classes for me begin Monday and 3 of my professors haven't posted anything. No syllabus, no textbook, no assignments, nothing at all. I know it's still technically winter break for me, but I'm just trying to be a good student and get ahead of the game.",29,163,650.1089862125505,college
Is it common for lecturers to simply power through slides?,"I don't really know If It's due to my mental ability, how the lecturer carries out the lecture or some measure of both, but my brain feels empty after leaving each class.

Computer Science is definitely a difficult subject, but my lecturer generally powers through the slides at an unnecessarily quick pace, throws terms up on the screen that she hasn't introduced, and by the time I think she might explain it, she powers on to the next slide.

She often describes things far too generally giving no specific details and condenses information by abstracting fairly important/rewarding examples and details for greater and easier explanation. I end up coming to lectures only to get the gist of the material I need to cover and look for other sources through the internet to have it explained to an appropriate level.

I have mixed feelings of frustration because the pace I'm learning at is remarkably long (which is fine in general, but the compromises on my social life is taking a slow toll), and confusion because I'm contemplating whether CS is a good fit. Is it just me, or is this a theme at universities?

Edit: I generally do a lot of outside reading for class and curiosity, but since the lecture aspect wasn't a common concern among my peers, I was curious whether It was me being in the minority. The replies have given pretty great insight on that, thanks.",16,160,180.35422926810605,college
I graduated with a BA in geography today!!,"Sorry if this isn't the right sub for this, but I'm just so excited! And, I have a phone interview for a job tomorrow morning! 

Edit to say: Take that!! to people who said my degree was worthless and a waste of time.",18,165,310.01418297180976,college
"Just made this with my therapist. Green is class, orange is studying, grey is meetings. (I have ADHD, but I think anyone could benefit from this. I'll be improving it obviously, but this is a great start. I'm really excited for the semester!!!!)",,39,162,1014.0261505644023,college
Group work is a joke,"Im tired of doing them. Ive texted my group so many times trying to get them together to finish up our assignment but no one responds ever. I guess my class agrees since the professor addressed the issue but said he wont be changing it till next time he teaches the class...

I just dont get it, do people just not care about doing the work? Whats the point of even giving me your contact info if you wont respond to any messages? Hate that my grade depends on other people.",45,163,1069.022956119958,college
I'm usually so busy with work at school that I have forgotten what to do in my free time. What are you doing with your time over break?,I'm already bored of Netflix. I could read but don't really feel like it. In a new city where my parent just moved to and it's very cold outside and not much to do. Driving myself crazy not being able to figure out what to do.,35,161,661.117817231069,college
"It's nice to finally have a teacher who cares.My professor told us to take a learning style quiz so she could collect data on how the class as a whole prefers to learn. I don't hear well, so she left me a personal message for if I struggle to hear her.",,15,158,769.6875510273653,college
PSA for anyone who is at community college or dropped out of high school...NEVER GIVE UP!,"I was a high school dropout. Told I'd never amount to anything. Told I was a loser. Told I was simply lazy. And for a while, I believed it. But you know what? I never gave up. I got my GED, much to my chagrin at the time, and enrolled at my local community college. My first semester there, I figured I'd try my best and maybe one day end up at a 4 year school. I was pretty much going through the motions at that point of my life, not really caring whether or not I failed. But then something happened. About midway through my first semester, I simply said SCREW IT. I'm gonna work my ass off. I'm gonna be the best student in every class, I'm gonna take everything seriously, I'm gonna stop messing around with my buddies every weekend. I decided to really commit to it. 2 semesters in, I decided to transfer to a 4 year college with a decent reputation, not my dream school by any means, but a place I could commute to easily and advance in my educational pursuits. At this University (a place with a 93 percent acceptance rate, for comparison), I continued to bust my ass for another semester. Having 42 credits with a 4.0 as of current date, the decision was easy...apply to my dream school and hope my 57 credits at the end of Fall 2016 would be enough. And you know what? IT WAS! I got accepted to the University of Pittsburgh and I have never been happier. The dream I had for my entire life has been fulfilled. 






The point of this post is that if I can overcome the ""high school dropout-college success"" dichotomy, ANYBODY can. You have to put the doubts, frustrations, and fears out of your mind. Your life can change in as little as a split second. Work hard, handle your business, get rid of anything detrimental to you, and get it done. There will be hard times. Hell, you might even mess up on a test or two. All those mini setbacks will pale in comparison to the pure joy you'll feel when you accomplish your goals. 




If anybody has any questions or just needs a pick-me-up, don't hesitate to ask. I figured I'd post this for anyone who is going through problems with their post-high-school life. 



",25,162,1151.8763473236615,college
Finishing assignments early feels so good,BUT i still feel as if something is due when im already done with everything,9,161,221.157030194032,college
Is it normal for your parents to be at your first meeting with your academic advisor?,"(first time poster so bear with me!) I didn't see any discussion on this so I wanted to ask: Were your parents there at your first meeting with your advisor, or are they going to be? My mother is demanding to come and won't take no for an answer! I asked why she has to come with me and she said it's because ""she wants to be there"" and it seems like she has questions she wants answered (but I'd be more than happy to ask those questions for her.) I don't really want her to come but it doesn't really seem like I have a choice. Am I being irrational? What are your experiences with this?  


**EDIT**: Thank you all for your advice! I didn't expect so many comments. I decided to tell my mother that I didn't want her to come to the meeting-- even flat out that she isn't coming, and she basically said ""yes, I am."" It didn't go well at all. She still doesn't seem to think that this is my decision, but I'm going to try and be firm. ",103,156,433.8432686199579,college
"Can’t find an internship? Ask your professors. No, really.","I’ve applied to every internship I could for the summer. I have only recently taken my studies seriously so I knew it would be a struggle, but not a single one even said maybe. 
I thought it couldn’t hurt to ask my current professors. And you know what? 2 out of 4 of them helped me. I now have one for the summer AND one for the fall. 
I would highly recommend asking your professors. It doesn’t hurt to try and you never know!",6,160,574.1687663051431,college
A Prof has cancelled FIVE classes since school started.,"I am not happy, my classmates aren't happy, and four of those cancellations have been within the hour of class starting. Who would y'all recommend I bring this up to? My advisor? The department head?",40,159,752.2038473236615,college
Why is everything on this subreddit so depressing?,I thought this subreddit would be about like funny videos taken in class or college parties or like college life hacks but instead it's just super sad,48,162,754.0665672310689,college
I think I hit the college housing jackpot,"Moved off campus for my senior year and found a little cottage by the ocean going for cheap rent since the owners only use it during the summer months.  Soooo this is the view from the porch of where I've been living this year (~$600/month).
[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/tXCjMYh.jpg)",20,156,1688.0517755644023,college
"are campus gyms usually free and safe? if so, what hours would you say they're the emptiest?","for science...

and also bc I don't wanna work out at home everyday",58,159,447.94866213847644,college
My professor gave me a 200/100 for my final.,"The maximum number of points for the final was 100 but I got 200. I guess she did it on purpose? Because of this I now have a 101% in the class. Even if I got 100/100, I would still have 92% which is an A in the class still. Why do you think she did it?
Edit:picture link
https://imgur.com/VWV6ut0
Also the class is English 102",55,159,520.9011621384764,college
"Yes, you can come back from a rough semester - a story.","Hi /r/college. Thought I would share a little tale of my past year and a half (ok and maybe brag a little)

Most of you might have just gotten your grades, and a few of you aren't going to be happy. My 1st semester freshman year, I was doing ok - I started volunteering on campus, was taking 14 credits, making some friends - life was good. Ended up with a 3.2 gpa - ok, but not wonderful. I was happy enough, since it was my first time taking college classes and I was taking a somewhat difficult major (Bio). 2nd semester, however, was not very good. Goofed off way too much, spent too much time hanging out/procrastinating/drinking & smoking/whatever, didn't care about my classes too much, and...my grades showed that. With a D and two Cs, my gpa was 2.4, making my over a 2.71. Now as someone who aspired to go to some sort of grad school, this was devastating. I lost a scholarship that I needed to afford school. I was freaking out. My schedule next semester wasn't going to be much easier - statistics and Orgo 1 were staring me in the face.

But I fuckin did it. I studied hard, I slowed down on my volunteering (which I was doing too much of), and I made sure that my priority was my academics. I finished with a 3.6, making my overall a 3.02 (even got an A in orgo!!) I'm now eligible to reapply for my scholarship (which the advisor said I'm almost guaranteed to get back) and I'm feeling a lot more confident in my studies. So yes,  it IS  possible. Don't let one rough semester hold you back.
",18,160,1022.0393102866245,college
So You Need to Write a Lab Report? The best fuckin' guide to lab reports ever,Get the pdf here: https://docdro.id/ZGqFAcj,15,157,358.3030950088468,college
"I like to study using whiteboards and lots of colors, I thought I would share",,17,159,437.94279408292084,college
Why did I even study?,I just spent so much time studying for a test that I'm sure I bombed. Does this happen to anyone else? Do you spend so much studying with little to no results? ,63,157,514.3156644532912,college
I have a friend who graduated 200000 in debt.,"Fuckkkkk.... like is that really in any way worth when you factor in opportunity cost, interest, and a hindered life of paying that every month??",169,160,644.2274468606986,college
Found out my final paper was not 4 pages but 20. 6am and halfway done. Gotta love all nighters.,"Luckily it’s for a 1 credit hour elective class, so I’m not too worried about quality.

UPDATE: 12 hours later and it’s done. Even hit 23 pages. Now I have to tackle another paper for the same class hahaha (1 pg reflection paper nbd)

Also, reason for procrastination, exam I couldn’t fail Monday and three speeches back to back in the same class Wednesday. Thursday lab project due. (IDK why I’m justifying but I am delirious so eh who cares?)

UPDATE 2: WELL APPARENTLY I HAVE TO WATCH AN HOUR OF VIDEO TO WRITE THIS PAPER. help

Side note, this 20 page paper was supposed to be for a group of 4. But I’m too antisocial to join a group so I just tanked it myself",15,160,678.5101783421801,college
"""This cliche about college being “the best four years of your life” is an outdated ideal that is a toxic mindset for college students to have during their time here.""",,12,160,1318.8286968606988,college
"Tips for a college tour? I am going to visit a few schools on the east coast this summer to see which ones I would like to go to. do you guys have any tips for what things should I be looking for/ paying attention to, anything that people don't often consider but I should keep in mind?",,45,157,118.24090750884679,college
Roommate told everyone I died.,"Okay I had a seizure event last week and everything turned out just fine. Got medical care and I'm hunky dory. 

This week I start making some new great friends who ask how i'm doing after dying last week. WHAT.

Apparently my roommate not only accessed personal medical information about my seizures, she's making up lies about my medical situation. I never died. My heart never stopped. I kept breathing the entire time. AKA NOT DEAD. But she's telling people this!! She is spreading lies that I died and needed to shock me back to life. 

Is it wrong for me to be like freaking out pissed or something? Hell I want a room change for god sake. 

Tl;DR Roommate is telling people i died and she saved me, she is a big liar. Is it wrong of me to want to change rooms?

",66,159,1131.7550510273652,college
List of Scholarships I Don't Need Anymore (x-post with /r/Scholarships),"I was originally going to go to a very pricy school so I resorted to scholarships to help. But, after much effort, I've chosen to just attend community college for two years to bring up my grades then reapply.

I hope this helps you guys out. It had taken me weeks to put this together.

The eligibility requirements for all of these mainly are:

* You don't need to be a citizen or lawful resident to apply 

* These apply to mostly four-year universities (some two-year)

* The school must be accredited (basically means an ""official school"")

Best of luck. To everyone.

P.S. I used to write little notes beside some of them to help me out when it came to writing them. Just ignore them I guess. I'm just uploading it how it is now. Also, O.T. means an official transcript.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8SHtf9-swltaG00SUh1Yld0Rlk/view?usp=sharing

**EDIT:** Each week I get tons of PM's and post notifications regarding questions about scholarships. Guys, I'm posting this here for you guys to use -- that's it and case closed. I don't want to keep looking back on scholarships and I won't go around doing research for you guys about something specific. ",16,161,1176.892655194032,college
So This Just Popped up on Campus,,9,153,15.944206119957897,college
"For a place that I'm rarely alone, college sure feels lonely.","I'm just starting my second week so I haven't given up on making friends but I've been feeling incredibly lonely lately, I eat alone usually in a cafeteria full of students, I do my work alone, even when my roommate and his friends are around I still feel isolated. (They're all in a higher grade than I am and have a long previous relationships with each other.) I guess I just never considered how much my home relationships meant to me until moments like now where I don't have them. I'm sure that eventually I'll be able to connect with someone but living life as someone on their own is... Taxing, I hope it all ends soon. If you guys have similar stories about your first year I'd really like to read them.",59,159,52.389865842180114,college
"This might sound obvious, but for the love of god use your library's resources!","tbh I feel like I might be cheating myself out of an advantage, but no one in my college seems to realize you can check normal books out of the library. I'm in two lit classes, and if I had not checked out the books, it probably would cost me $100+ per class. 

None of my classmates do this--I know because the books are always still on the shelf a day before class starts. Heck, there's even some ways to get textbooks checked out (not just for in-library use). I just feel like I stumbled upon a gold mine and wanted to share this, albeit obvious, ability. ",19,157,726.3850973236616,college
Why do I have to pay to do the required homework?,"So far many of my classes use a subscription based service to do home work (Aleks, Pearson REVEL, MATLAB, and Webassign so far). Why can't they give the homework through Blackboard?",50,157,1117.1865093606987,college
Advice for College First-Years,"I wrote this a while ago, intending it to send it to someone. Unfortunately, we despise each other now. But I didn’t want to waste this so I’m posting it here.

BOOKS:

Books in university are a massive money pit. I’ve heard of people spending close to a thousand on supplies and materials per semester. The reason being is that these books are extremely price gouging. New books typically cost upwards $100. What typically happens is that schools will attach an access code to the book where you will do your homework online. These access codes will cost between $50 and $120 in my experience. 

Suppose you go to the school’s book store and buy a new textbook and the access code. For some, it’d be easier to explain with the tangible example of my Gen. Chem 1 class. At my school, the textbook and the access code together were $300 new. I only paid $100. How? I bought an older edition of the book for $20 on Amazon and then went online and bought the access code from the site directly for $80. A really big price-gouging method that I’ve noticed is that schools will cut a book in half and sell them separately to two different classes. The first half of my $20 older and used book was completely identical the new textbook used in my Gen. Chem 1 class. The second half was completely identical to the Gen. Chem 2 class’s text book.

For classes like biology and chemistry, you’ll also need to buy supplies. Such as lab coats, goggles, etc. At the book store, you’ll find that they are extremely expensive here as well. You can spend $20 on goggles when you can spend far less at an equipment/tool store nearby. I saved almost a hundred dollars doing this.

Absolutely do not buy your books before class starts unless your professor has told you to buy these books and have them ready before class. What typically happens is that the first day of classes, the professor will go over the syllabus, then if there’s any time left they will start a lecture. However, you will not need a textbook for this. The professor will inform you of what you will need for the course, so you should buy the materials when you know you need them. If you run around buying textbooks from older students, you will get price-gouged. A student can sell you a $120 Physics textbook and tell you that he spent $200, but in reality, there’s an $80 access code that you will need to buy later.

If you like PDFs, pirate your books. I probably can’t link sites here, but you can find them fairly easily. 

CLASSES:

Do your research. Is this going to be a hard class? Is this class going to have a high workload? How much extra credit will be given out in this class? Will your grades be mostly determined by homework or tests? Most of this you can find through the syllabus. You can also ask older students for advice on the classes. If you plan on dorming, this can be quite easy. If you take some STEM classes like Calculus, Physics, or Chemistry, you’ll find that plenty of students will have taken those classes you’ve taken already and can give you advice. 

Build a study habit. Even if it seems too easy to study for. Build your studying habit. You do not want to get into more difficult and complex classes with the same “oh this is easy, I don’t really need to study. I can go goof off!” attitude. And if you do reach those classes with that attitude, it is very hard to break. So start early, begin studying. Build your discipline.

One thing that people don’t typically take advantage of are office hours. Got a question? Go office hours or email the professor. One very important advice is to go to office hours if you’re majoring in the department that the professor is in. By going to office hours consistently, the professor gets to know who you are. Talk to them about their research. And if you’re in the same department, that is a massive bonus because if the professor likes you, you can use him/her as a reference or letter of recommendation to a program or job.

CAREER:

Building off of office hours, you should be looking at internships in the field you want to go to. Ask your professors if they know of any reputable internships around. If you share an amicable relationship with your professor, you can ask him/her to write a letter of recommendation or refer you to the program.

The internship will help you figure out if you actually want to continue in this field. I did an internship and realized that what I wanted wasn’t actually the complex and abstract but rather the practical applications. And so I changed my major from Physics to Computer Science.

Should you get into the internship, try to keep an amicable and competent relationship with your supervisor. Your supervisor will now serve to be an effective and very important reference in the future. Not only that, the people you meet will be apart of your network. You can ask these people for job opportunities in the future or as references to other jobs.

Apply to scholarships, as many as you can. Take the time to write essays that sell yourself (not literally) to the scholarship. You’re essentially taking an hour out of your day to apply to some scholarships that may or may not make you anywhere upward a few hundred dollars.

Figure out if you plan on going into a graduate program. Build your extracurricular classes to fit into those. Are you certain that you’ll get into this one program? Well fuck you because there’s no guarantee you’ll get into that one. Go apply to other programs and look at their requirements. The sooner you do, the more prepared you will be. Study for the exam you’ll need whether it be the MCAT or GRE or whatever. 

EDIT: Maybe I should have posted this closer to when school actually started. But I wanted to get rid of this asap :P",19,154,457.979842694032,college
Anyone else have a roommate like this? Stays up really late with the light on.,"It is currently 4:42am. It’s been like this the whole semester and it’s driving me nuts. I’m sleep deprived as shit and I find myself taking weird evening naps that destroys my sleep schedule. This guy does not turn off his floor lamp that lights up half the room. He stays up to 5am every night, I’m assuming he has evening classes. I’m in a double in the dorms by the way. I have class in three hours for an 8am then I’m going to nap until my next class. My sleep schedule is in shambles thanks to this guy. He does not sleep at night. ",49,151,553.6075741755134,college
"I move in tomorrow, and I'm pretty excited!","Tomorrow I'll officially be a college student and I'll be moved into my dorm at 3pm. I'm excited, but man am I nervous. I'm also not looking forward to the departure from my family, I know there will be tears. My little brother already broke down a couple days ago :( But I know this is the next phase in my life, and I hope I can make the best of it. What should I do tomorrow after moving in? Should I explore? Or try to get to know my roommate?",21,155,797.3354908421801,college
It's finals time. Here's your friendly reminder that you are more than your grades.,"Your life is worth more than your degree and the number that goes on it or an honors phrase or whatever. School is but a small part of life and you can always transfer, always retake a class or change majors. It isn't worth ending your life over or anything drastic. Stay strong and power through this, you've got this and if you don't, there are plenty of people for you to talk to. Don't let a test and a number be the end all be all. We've lost a few at Vandy already and it pains me every time to see people so beat down and I don't want to see it happen again. If you need someone to talk to I'm here and so is everyone else in your life.",34,153,1268.2797153792171,college
Does anyone write reviews for Rate My Professor?,"I write down my own reviews of each professor that  I took class with.  Sometimes I looked back the professor reviews that I wrote and see many likes. I feel kinda of happy that people took my reviews seriously. In my reviews, I tried to tell people  how to pass their exams.",24,157,88.23495843477271,college
My dad died right before midterms. Am I completely screwed this semester?,"Hi reddit. Here's my situation:

Currently 21 years of age and in my 4th year of college. I am aiming to complete my B.S. in Computer Science in the spring  of 2020; and afterward aiming to get into a MS program in data science. College has not been easy on me. I graduated high school in 2015 5th in my class and with nearly 60 college credits due to a vigorous dual-enrollment program I was in my jr and sr years. I thought I was hot shit coming into University, but was very quickly knocked off my high horse. It took me nearly 2 years to figure out what I wanted to major in (from poli sci, to biochem, to finally computer science/ data science). I did not adjust very well in a dorm setting while being 5 hours away from home. I already have had to take a medical withdraw one semester (due to being hospitalized twice- for 2 weeks out of a month for being unable to manage my anxiety and OCD). Needless to say my entire adult life thus far has been one challenge after another both academically and personally.

Fast forward to this semester. I was doing fantastic in all of my classes while working 32 hours a week. I had achieved high 90s on all my mathematics and CS tests thus far. My only hurdle seemed to by physics- my Achilles heel. I'd been putting off taking physics for years as it has always been my weakest subject. But alas, I was maintaining a low to mid-B average, which was completely fine with me (I'm the type of person who only considers myself doing well if I'm maintaining all A's). The week before midterms, I was informed my father was one of a fatalities of Hurricane Michael. 

Oh, one other thing I forgot to mention- I moved across the country last year to complete school and live with one of my best friends and their family. I was 2,300 miles away from my family when I heard this news.

As anyone would do, I quickly booked a flight to Virginia for 2 days later. I was beside myself. This was the first major loss I'd ever experienced in my life, and it hurt much more to know it had happened in such a tragic and violent manner. My 18 year old sister and I were also tasked with managing his final affairs, as my parents divorced when we were 8 and 4. The past 2 weeks have been absolute hell. I have gone through so much more heartache, emotional and mental stress, as well as all the physical symptoms that can accompany grief, than I ever thought one person could take. On top of that, I'm also trying to orchestrate a contest of my father's will, as he wrote my sister and I out of it just months after my parent's divorce, obviously out of spite for my mother, and never thought to change it, as of course no one ever thinks they'll be taken so suddenly. Before finding the will, the court appointed us administrators of his estate; and we've been told now that that cannot be changed. So we now have to perform those duties with a $100,000 bond over our heads and we will never see a penny of the assets we help collect (which, of course, obviously doesn't mean more to me than the loss of our dad, but it would definitely give my sister a great start in life and would help me pay off most of my medical/student debt). 

Now that I'm back home from being in VA, I'm trying to catch up with my studies. I missed 2 midterms along with many, many important lectures. My physics midterm is tomorrow, and I've been so distraught and still reeling from all the stress I have hardly been able to study for it. I could withdraw, but if I do that I don't think I'll be able to graduate on time. I guess I'm just writing this post to ask for advice. I'm sort of at my wits end. My anxiety is rampant again, I can't sleep because my father's death keeps replaying over and over continuously in my head, each time more graphic and violent than the last. It's as if the universe keeps trying to tell me that college isn't the right path for me, but I just don't want to listen to it.

Sorry for the novel, I just really needed to lay everything out. Thanks all in advance for any advice you may provide.

 

&#x200B;",32,151,354.1512431569949,college
How can I deal with leaving my family behind when I go to college?,"It's currently 4am and I am stuck sitting here unable to sleep because I am so anxious about going back to school. I'm going into my sophomore year and I move in on Saturday but I'm way more upset about leaving home than I was as a freshman... I haven't even started packing yet because I just want to avoid thinking about leaving again. 

It's mostly hard to leave behind the people I care about. My grandma's health is deteriorating, a close family friend just lost her job, and my beloved family dog is very old now. Not to mention my sister and Mom refused to talk to each other all summer and I was stuck in between them. I care so much for those around me and I can't stand to leave them behind because I feel it is my responsibility to take care of them and fix things. How can I deal with the emotional toll of being so far away from those I care for? This is going to be a disasterous year at school, I can already tell... How am I supposed to focus on my studies when everything back home is going wrong?",17,152,427.6218565829209,college
Why so many failing students?,"One after another, students seek advise after failing college. I give those students kudos for seeking advice, but what is behind the failing? I am not pointing fingers, simply looking for reasons. Could it be the students weren't ready to attend college? Could they have not taken it serious enough? Could college simply not be for them? Certainly any of these could apply, but I have to ask how much of a factor is due to secondary education failing the students? Now before teachers start taking me to task, it is the system and lack of resources I question. Sure, there are some bad teachers. There are bad in any given group. As a whole, I don't think teachers have degraded, but the curriculum, responsibilities and lack of virtually everything they are confronted with. Why are other countries so far ahead of us. Are you old enough to remember when other countries used to look up at us? It is a fact that when you tear something apart like lowering standards, which you can do with the flick of a pen, take generations to undo. Do we have the time to waste? Not by judging the current state of the country.",170,154,511.11862741625424,college
Help me get my Instagram squirrel page for our university’s squirrel popular a blue check mark!,https://www.instagram.com/wsu.squirrels/,4,5,0.051711643603112964,college
Is it okay to email a professor over a break?,My school’s fall break began yesterday afternoon. I emailed my professor today and I was wondering if it’s typically acceptable for you to contact a professor over a break for students and faculty or if it’s seen as rude. All I asked was what chapter we’d be going over next week so I could start reading it. Thanks.,1,3,0.01792692138089074,college
Would intellectual work be preferable to physical work in my case?,"I am 19 and have been working a low level job as a cashier though it’s not trivial. I don’t know if I could excel at a trade due to having issues with my airway, (reconstructive Surgery) and smaller size: I am considering law or business school, but am not certain of those yet. Can Someone here help me make an informed decision? I want something meaningful that is contributing to the community but also is in demand and has good income potential to it.",4,3,0.021943125084594443,college
Commuter students moving out?,"I’m a commuter student as of right now, and my home life has always been pretty stressful and continues to degrade my mental health. I struggle to study at home because of the constant yelling, and parents barging into my room to go off about god knows what. There’s constantly arguing between parents, shit being slammed around, dad screaming at my other siblings, occasional physical abuse, and it’s just never been a healthy environment. 

This takes a toll on my studies, given that I can’t focus when all of this is happening around me. And if any of this triggers a panic attack, I’ve found it impossible to focus for the next few hours/rest of the night, even when the panic attack and whatever caused it stops. 

My dad is the main perpetrator of this, and my mom is a little more reasonable. I really want to move out (plus, I live like 25-30 minutes away from campus) for a lot of reasons, the main being the toxicity harming my grades. On a lesser note, having some freedom and all that would be cool.

I looked at a place a few months ago, before classes started, but my mom didn’t want me to move out. And I get it (sort of). Why pay rent when you can live for free? I’m also the oldest, so my parents have never dealt with anyone moving out or anything like that. I feel like it’s sort of hard for me to justify to my mom paying for something that is essentially free right now, and she’s very dismissive of the fact this household is chaos. 

I’m looking at a place on Sunday, and it’s getting to the point where I can’t live here anymore. I haven’t seen the place yet, but it’s a little over half what I make a month (including utilities) (so.... semi-affordable) and the woman (who would be one of my roommates) seems really nice. 

Also, not really sure where to put this, but I’m gay. My parents don’t know that. My life would actually be in danger if my dad found out. He’s EXTREMELY homophobic, and he’s already violent as it is. I don’t know what would happen if he found out (especially while I’m still living here) but I never want to find out. 


The biggest obstacles to me just moving out and not giving a fuck about what my parents think are:
1) 19 is the age of majority in my state, and I’m 18. I know other 18 year olds that have moved out, but their parents have supported them. I’m worried if I do all this without convincing my parents (mom, since she’s the most reasonable) they’ll call the police. 

2) I don’t really wanna cut ties with my family, and I’m worried going against my mom’s wishes will do that. I know it’s stupid, since my parents have caused me a lot of mental and physical harm (constant panic attacks, mom punched me in the eye awhile back, lots of threats) but I’d at least like to have a relationship with my mom and siblings... my dad can lowkey go to hell but that’s something else.

3) I would be paying for the place myself. I have a retail job where I can always pick up hours, and I have savings that could cover a few months of rent if something wild happened. However, this transition would be easier if I didn’t have to transfer everything to my name. Maybe this is hypocritical, since I’m asking for independence but also lowkey financial “support”, but if I could stay on the family phone plan (which I currently pay my share of), it’d be cheaper. Additionally... car insurance. It’s way cheaper to stay on my parent’s plan and pay for my part than get my own at 18. If I could get my mom to agree to let me move out, I wouldn’t have to worry about my other expenses rising. I’m not asking for them to pay for my shit, just to continue the way it was.

TL;DR how do you justify to/convince your parents you should move out when you already live in the city you go to school? I need to convince my mom from a practical standpoint (so... not including the impacts of abuse, fear of being outed) so I can move out and feel safe. Reasonably, I could move out without their approval (unless they could call the police?) but I’d prefer not to.",2,2,0.032429236195705556,college
I did it... I finally did it. You have no idea how much energy this took out of me since I have never told a professor about my illness before. Nervous about the reply still...,,7,51,0.16291534730681667,college
Received this email just now... someone should buy Maeghan a calendar,,0,25,0.17190840286237222,college
Would you rather 8am -3pm classes or 12-9pm,I’m currently doing 8-3 and my mental health has never been worse. I’m not a fucking morning person,210,596,0.9100334028623722,college
How do I tell my professor that I'm not going to be in class,"I want to email my professor to let him know that I have a meeting for another class during his, but I'm not sure how to word the email.",9,22,0.3511676621216315,college
Does CC make you feel immature?,"I feel like community college is no different from high school and some students just haven't grown out of their child-like mentality. Being surrounded by all that, I feel like I haven't grown either. I want to transfer to a university but I feel like I'm still not mentally ready even though I actually am very close to completing my GE.",5,7,0.07029960656607592,college
Roommate is mad and I don't understand why,"Okay so as far as I know, my roommate and I have never had issues. However, every time I talk about maybe going home at some point she tells me not to leave because I can't leave her alone (I've only went home one other weekend than this time and we never hang out outside our dorm and she goes home nearly every weekend). Last week on Monday my professors in my two MWF classes told us we would not be having class on Friday or the following Monday. I had asked my roommate if she could take me to the airport Thursday night and she said no because she has classes. I had cleaned my side of the room before I left and when I came back Monday night her trash was all over my desk, it kind of bothered me because I know she didn't throw away her food all weekend then but it wasn't that big of a deal. Come Tuesday I ended up moving her stuff off my desk because I needed the space to organize my laundry. Apparently she was upset that I moved her stuff onto her desk instead and sent me a long text about how I shouldn't have moved her stuff and that I can't leave her because she has anxiety issues, her feelings are more important than me going to see my family and that I also need to give her a weeks notice before going home. I defended myself by saying that I only moved her stuff because I needed to do my laundry and im going home when I get the chance because I never know when im going to be able to. She is now not speaking to me its been 3 days and last night she walked into our room at 11 and I was already asleep due to having a chem test until 9pm and needing to wake up early for classes in the morning. She came in and turned on all the nights slammed stuff down multiple times and then played her tv really loud, I just pretended to be asleep because I feel she is trying to get a rise out of me at this point. What should I do? I've thought about mediation, would that be the next step? Any advice would be appreciated.",10,7,0.1603459028623722,college
Pondering dropping out.,"3 semesters in, at 46, and it's gotten so tough I can no longer handle it. Failing Algebra, doing so-so in everything else. Knocking out prerequisites (a year's worth- false advertising for a 2yr degree IMO) for Xray Tech program that I may/may not even get into next fall. Have foreign instructors/tutors I can not understand, teaching material I don't understand. I just wanted so desperately to not be waiting tables at 50, but it looks like life just dealt me that deck, despite my efforts. I wish I could have been anything else before my time is up.",8,8,0.25318155101052037,college
Anybody else's parents want you to change your major?,"I'm a freshman, an environmental science major. No minor yet, but I'm thinking biology. I'm really enjoying this past semester. My major is challenging and I fuckin love all the science classes. 

I started planning my next semester with my mom yesterday. She was quiet for a while, but when I added the evolution class to my schedule she immediately got up and left for a couple mins. Come back, I ask what's wrong, and she tells me she wishes that I would go into nursing (or even dentistry) instead, because I would get a job immediately after school. Also, she would just respect me more if I did.

I'm getting the vibe that she thinks Env/Bio is kooky bullshit, like the fabled ~philosophy major~. I'm starting to feel a little insecure about my major. I know would be miserable in the medical scene because I have no interest in it whatsoever. 

But since the dam broke, my mom keeps telling me that what I choose to do with my education is my choice, sort of implying that I'm making a shitty choice. 

Anybody else relate to this? It's pretty disheartening.",15,8,0.2931584028623722,college
Does it matter what I get my associates in?,"I have no idea what I want to do with my life and I'm almost done with community college. I have enough units for a liberal studies degree except maybe one or two classes. I'm completely stuck on what I should do as I cant afford a 4 year college but will probably end up taking out a loan and going into debt anyways. So do I just get the 2 year degree in liberal studies or should I figure out what I want to do (I've never had a clue so that's unlikely) and major in that? An AA/AS is pretty worthless I understand but if i knew what my bachelors was going to be I could pick an appropriate AA degree. I'm not good at math, medicine, or technology so I've already accepted I wont be making a good wage once I'm out of college. Id just like some advice on what to do. I work pretty much full time and go to school but I only make minimum wage. I feel like I'm doing so much but it returns nothing.",18,5,0.2471051621216315,college
Got another A on a test in US History,"I love my history class and I was super nervous that it would be impossible to do well in. This is my second test and second A. I don’t have anyone besides my parents to share with, but I’m just so excited because the teacher told the class that 1/3 of the people would fail and I for sure thought I’d be apart of that.",16,69,0.841260254714224,college
I want to start completely over.,"Hi. I graduated high school in Spring 2018, and began university in Fall 2018. It's now Fall 2019 and these past 3 semesters have been an absolute shitfest.

I discovered I hate my major at this uni, and the major I want to change to isn't offered here. I started looking at other universities to see if I can transfer, but my gpa is consistently too low.

Pretty much every credit I've earned is transferable. I have about 40. Is there a way for me to just hard reset my college past so that my shitty gpa stops affecting me and I can transfer?",4,2,0.08840145841792778,college
Cant choose a major,"Hello people.  
i am in the process of choosing a subject to study in college and i have no clue as i don't seem to like any of them.  
What i know i am is someone who **Feels** through problems and just knows when something is right.  


I was good at all of my subjects at school but hated them all so if you have any recommendations i appreciate them.",4,2,0.09374868064015,college
Is it normal to not like any of the courses at all?,"  
Hi y'all, this is just a random question I have but is it normal to not like any of the courses you are taking/have taken? I hear people saying that they really enjoyed taking certain courses but I've never been able to relate to that. You may have interesting readings yes, but getting tested on it or having to write an essay is annoying to me. I don't remember 99.9% of what I ""learned"" because I have no interest in it. It's more like memorizing stuff and then forgetting all of it; I retain almost nothing. Do most people like the courses and am I the outlier? If you could provide me what you think/your experience that would be very helpful. Thanks :)",4,6,0.3111676621216315,college
what major are you studying and what do you plan to do with it ?,"currently a sociology major and i'm thinking of switching to business as i heard you need a masters to get work really and can't do much with a bachelors now and i'm not trying to stay in college for 5+ years to obtain a masters in sociology to be fair :/. i'm in my 2nd year and just conflicted i go to csusm and i'm just lost a bit haha, i did want to be a dental hygienist but don't know where to go for that i heard trade school but my mom said i shouldn't as tuition is free at universities since the va covers (dad served). but yeah, i'm interesse into hearing what your guys majors are !",3,2,0.11255655101052037,college
What majors in the science or math field offer the best work life balance?,,1,3,0.2075449769364463,college
"Does anyone else who struggles with severe anxiety find it difficult to communicate with professors via email, phone, etc?","I need to email a professor and ask about a due date for a project we're working on but my heart is beating fast and I can't calm down enough to write the email. Obviously, I have extreme levels of anxiety. I'm just curious if anyone else has the same issues as I do.",2,2,0.14621395841792778,college
What can I get if I major in Political Science?,"So I'm planning on eventually going to law school but people recommended me getting something to fall back on if I don't get accepted.

Does a bachelor's in political science net any jobs or is it a meme-tier degree?",7,2,0.1521051621216315,college
My girlfriend is having a medical emergency that will require her to skip next semester.,"She needs emotional support to get through everything and I want to be there for her, so after talking with my parents I will be coming home with her and will spend a semester being there for her. I want to take classes at the local community college (Foothill community college) to still keep on track with school (CU Boulder). However foothill is on the quarter system and boulder is semester. Will credits be accepted from a non semester system school? I have not found any info on this. Thanks!",1,1,0.003957013973483333,college
"Biology, what minor wouldn't require a lot of courses","If I wanted a minor in environmental science, would it only take a few extra classes? I wasn't planning on minoring in something but I'm starting to think about it, I sont want to do computer science, thinking of working as a researcher for the department of natural resources, being a biology teacher, lab researcher, or vet school but I'm not sure.",0,1,0.004871365825335185,college
"Ok Reddit, give it to me straight. Would I be stupid to switch from engineering to economics?","I'm a third-year in engienering and I just can't do it anymore. I'm afraid I'm throwing away a great opportunity and all the work I've done to get this far in my major but I don't know how I can continue. I'm currently on track to fail 2 of my classes and to be honest I just have no interest in my major whatsoever. 

Ideally, I would go into business w/ an engineering minor but I'll never make the GPA requirement to get into the business school. I thought economics would be the next best thing. I want to be a business analyst or something similar if that helps. Any major suggestions, life suggestions, or reality checks are welcome.",5,3,0.254535717677187,college
Am I going through a rough patch or should I consider dropping out?,"I’m extremely emotionally distressed again, and I’m trying to toughen it out and finish the semester. I have been skipping the classes that aren’t mandatory attendance, but I keep my grades up and turn my work in on time. I’m not neglecting my work or anything, but I am abusing my free time. My motivation for school is just completely gone I think. I’m just in such an emotional rollercoaster and I want to avoid everything as much as I can. I’m doing what I can to feel better, but nothing feels like it’s working.. I tried to fill up this empty space with sexual and physical affection, and it didn’t work. I tried to fill it up with hobbies and doing art work, but it doesn’t work. I tried to just regularly work out, and it doesn’t work. And I’m just such a depressed and confused mess in my head - that I’m trying to run away from everything like my problems. And now it’s turned physical, where I need to run away from my own dorm??? I don’t know why but I can’t stand sleeping there now, and I haven’t slept there in 3 days (I’ve been sleeping at my friends dorm). I just don’t know if I’m going through a tough spot or maybe I should go to counseling??",0,1,0.010542662121631482,college
