title,body,num_comments,up_votes,age,subreddit
OFFICIAL ACCEPTANCE MEGA-THREAD! Post Your Acceptance Here For Celebration!,OFFICIAL ACCEPTANCE MEGA-THREAD! Post Your Acceptance Here For Celebration! ,503,227,214.32206654765815,GradSchool
I have so much resentment,"I am set to hand in my thesis next week, and I am an emotional wreck. The last four years of my life absolutely destroyed me, and right now it seems like it just will never end.

I got almost no supervision in these four years. I got a lot of passive-aggressive comments about how much of a failure I am, though. 4 years in this department in which I am ignored at best, treated like an inconvenience at worst. None of my colleagues seem to understand how much harder it is to do a PhD basically on your own. How hard it is on your self-esteem to be in an environment that has no word of encouragement or constrictive feedback for you. 

After these 4 years of being on my own, I spent a couple of weeks prodding my supervisor on his schedule for the last weeks before my submission, so that he would be able to include time to look at my drafts and give me feedback. He says ok sure, he can do it, he has time, it is all ok.

So it is 7 days before my submission day, and he hasn't finished reading even my introduction. It seems like his office is never empty of other students with which he is spending hours and hours talking to. It's not like he is a great supervisor to all of these people either... it just seems like all of those meetings have to happen now.

I don't understand this. Why would he hire someone who he seems convinced that is a failure? Why would he accept the role of supervisor to someone, and then spend 4 years questioning any of this person's attempts at doing research, while providing zero guidance on what path to follow instead?

For 3 years my self confidence dwindled, I became depressed, ruined my long-term relationship, failed to integrate in a foreign country where it is already super hard to integrate. For all this time I felt like an absolute failure, because that's how I was treated. 

Maybe I am not the smartest cookie in the jar, but I did a great job before this. I had way more publications than anyone else here had before starting the PhD. And now I'm not even done yet, and job offers are raining at me. People seem to appreciate me, my ideas and my work, even though I haven't published anything in 3 years. 

I am so so tired. I got out of the office and came home because I just couldn't keep myself from crying. I just want this to be over soon.",28,194,0.473397566176675,GradSchool
Mid semester as a grad student feels like...," [https://imgur.com/gallery/sAqmCJN](https://imgur.com/gallery/sAqmCJN) 

 I have a departmental presentation next friday, an ACS presentation this friday, 90 homework assignments to grade, an exam to proctor on thursday, then 90 exams to grade, and my wife's birfday is this weekend. Oh yea, and that research thing for this research degree i started.",1,11,0.38033043654704535,GradSchool
I can feel myself spiraling into a depressive episode and I don't know what to say to my advisor *trigger warning*,"Some background on me: 

I'm a 3rd year grad student in a chemistry PhD program, and I've had mental issues my whole life. Depression, anxiety, self harm, suicidal thoughts, the whole shebang. In college I was formally diagnosed and got therapy and antidepressants, and things got a lot better. Now I am still on that medication and doing therapy, and things have generally gotten a lot better. 

Lately my mental health has been really bad. I'm anxious and paranoid almost all the time, I've been dissociating again (that's where I feel really light-headed and I briefly forget who I am and what's happening, like I'm outside my body), and it's hard for me to think clearly, my mind is fuzzy. 

My therapist is booked until next month, and I can start anti-anxiety meds but my Dr is booked until December. I can tell I'm starting to spiral, but what I'm really nervous about is what do I tell my advisor? Do I tell him at all? Do I ask for a day off to recover? My first impulse is to carry on as normal, push through and hope things get better soon without me harming myself. He's a nice guy, but very professional. We don't really talk about our personal lives, and I've never mentioned my medical history. For example, I didn't even know he was married to someone in our department until I had been working for him for a while. 

Has anyone been in a similar situation?",2,3,0.06508738099148981,GradSchool
Tips on getting over perfectionism? It's eating away my time!,"Question is in the title. Just started grad school this September for my Master's! 

I've always been a keener and in my undergrad it was fairly easy to put in the time and get good grades. However, I'm quickly learning grad school is a whole different beast and now I'm easily dumping countless hours into getting even small projects juuuuuuust right. It's driving me crazy and with big term papers due in 6 weeks among lots of smaller assignments I'm getting concerned about my time management.

Any advice on helping a newbie get to the point and decently their manage their time before they lose their marbles and become a hermit for all of November?",2,6,0.27055034395445277,GradSchool
"Halfway through the fall semester and we’re still alive! I believe in you all, even the humanities people.",I jest. I believe wholeheartedly that without the humanities life would be magnitudes less joyful.,9,98,0.9487910846951936,GradSchool
"Last year, after 3 years of my PhD, I had no results (or anything written). This week, I handed in my thesis.","I'm writing this because my PhD really damaged my self-esteem, so I want to practice being proud of myself. So yeah, I'm proud of saving my PhD pretty much all by myself, with some help from my colleagues. I had no idea it was even possible to go from 0 - 100% in the space of a year.

I also wanted to write this to give hope to other students who are deep into their PhD and feel behind, especially those who have been left behind by their supervisors (like I was). So I'm happy to chat or offer advice related to those problems here/in PMs -- too many of us suffer in silence and it's super important to talk about these problems earlier rather than later.",47,493,1.3774253439544528,GradSchool
What was your GRE score and did you get into your Grad school of choice?,"Hi all, I'm a senior graduating this upcoming spring semester and was hoping to gauge the approximate GRE scores that current & past r/GradSchool students have gotten, along with whether or not you successfully got into your graduate school program of choice.

If you would please fill out this short, 3-question survey below, that would be great:
https://forms.gle/NQLrGND7HRH3U29R7

Any discussion is welcome. I'm pretty unsure on what percentile I should be aiming for in order to reasonably expect to get into a few decent grad school programs. If it matters for discussion, I'm planning on pursuing a Master of Science Degree in Biochemistry.",0,1,0.008791084695193503,GradSchool
YC Students - List of all the internships and new grad jobs opening at the Y Combinator backed startups,,0,1,0.020851269880378685,GradSchool
NSF GRFP Personal Statement,In my personal statement I acknowledge the reasons I've decided to go into the field that I am in but I wasn't sure how/if there were ways to integrate my chronic pain disability into it as well (as an example of 1. persistence even in the face of adversity and 2. somewhat of an explanation for my lower gpa) and was wondering if anyone else here had done that and had any advice on how to make it something that really does highlight my strengths rather than a pity/sob story because that isn't what I want but it is something that is fundamental to who I am.,0,2,0.026186918028526834,GradSchool
"""Personal Statement""","hey all, 

currently applying for my MBA overseas in London. one of the requirements is to provide a personal statement. It doesn't specify anything else other than that, not even word count. Kind of vague, but then again it is my first time doing this so it may just be my ignorance. can anyone give me some pointers on where/how to start? What should it be about? Maybe what are some brainstorming techniques you used when doing this?

thanks in advance.",0,2,0.049682288398897205,GradSchool
Is it good enough to graduate with a Masters thesis and a 4-pages research?,"Hi there,
Am a masters student in my 3 semester. I have only one paper published so far, I was the secondary author of that paper.
Right now I’m working on my thesis and a short paper to be published in a jornal. Basically, the short paper is a small overview of my thesis. 
So, I want to know, is graduating with these papers in my resume would be enough for me to purse PhD? 
My major is computer networks.",3,3,0.32645312173223057,GradSchool
Grad School Anxiety,"Hey everyone. Hopefully this is the right thread to post in. If not please direct me to the right group! Otherwise I'm just going to jump right into my issue.   


I'm currently in my last year of graduate school. So far the experience has been really exciting but incredibly draining all throughout my application process until now. I got into the program I am in now and was really proud of myself. But in terms of my academic ability and more importantly my writing ability I've always felt like it wasn't on the same level as my peers. This probably stems from issues that I had moving from NYC to upstate NY where many of my peers and teachers were white people. I'm a person of color and I don't think that I also communicated in a way that they were use to. In addition, teachers from my childhood years use to make me feel like complete shit when I wrote a paper or submitted any work.   


This semester in particular I've felt at lost. Many of the articles that I am assigned for one class in particular feel inaccessible to me. The language that is used is confusing and for lack of a better word a bit pretentious. It feels like the person writing thinks that using more complex language makes their argument or idea more credible or valid. Due to my own insecurities I've felt incredibly stupid this entire semester because I'm not able to tie in the readings and lectures when I'm writing papers, etc. In fact, I had sort of a breakdown today because of it.  


My professor in that class emailed me back a paper and stated that my use of the readings and application are thin. He felt like the paper was rushed and not well thought out. I won't like reading that truly hurt me and once again made me feel like I shouldn't be in grad school.  


I guess I'm just looking for advice. How would you approach this situation? How can I express to my Professor that that readings aren't accessible to me. That I'm having a hard time following how the papers ad readings tie together. I don't want to be rude to him but I'm angry, hurt, and frustrated. Has anyone else experienced something like this?   


I'd appreciate any and all helpful comments.",3,1,0.08651099210260091,GradSchool
Tips for peer reviewing a review article?,"Hey all,

Just wondering if anyone out there has done this before. I’ve done research articles before and have a decent system, but I’ve never had to peer review a review article before. I’m supposed to meet with my advisor later in the week to discuss, and am wondering what kinds of things I should be looking for",1,1,0.11045775136186017,GradSchool
Labmate continually signing up for presentations and only presenting her undergrad’s data?,"A non traditional grad student who joined our lab a year after me has recently been displaying bad behavior. Initially she was put in a hard position to manage two undergrads over the summer but since then she had plagiarized one of their posters (literally just put herself as first author), only given research updates showing their data (re- peak fitting for no seeming reason- one of the undergrads has been on the project longer than she was), and now she is presenting a senior group member’s unpublished data without their permission. Several times she has talked to me, a senior group member as if she and my boss are the PIs  (at one point referring to her undergrads and herself as her “group”). 

I understand that she was put in a bad position but she isn’t collecting data (I think she has collected a total of 2 sets of data in almost a year) and continually takes 2-4 hour lunch breaks when she isn’t watching Netflix on the computer. The last thing is that she continually orders gas tanks to go into a shared lab space (that happens to be a rad lab) without telling anyone and several people have to cover for her job.

I am posting to see if I should approach my boss (seeing as she is presenting again this week, for the third time as a second year) or confront her about taking other people’s data. I guess it seems like she is just asserting herself like a position in industry (I do chemistry) but she isn’t even post comps yet.",6,25,0.8207123809914898,GradSchool
How do you set yourself up to be studious?,"I'm in my second year of graduate school. Despite loving academia and really wanting to make a career out of it. I'm, honestly, not the best student. Highschool was a joke and I really didn't develop good study skills in undergrad. I'm just wondering what y'all do to help you focus and do work/research outside of class. Also, we all got this!",11,12,0.6603998809914897,GradSchool
"Looking to pick up a masters in finance/statistics, what are some schools that I should be looking at?","
I'm currently an accounting major at a state school with a 3.9 GPA in Texas, graduating in May 2020. I'm thinking of changing my major into a more quantitative role. I'm about to take the GMAT soon and send out my transcripts/test scores. What are some of the best MSF grad schools in the U.S that I should be looking at? I have a full time offer with a private equity accounting firm so I'm able to get work experience if needed.

(posted this on /r/FinancialCareers but not many have responded)",1,0,0.1914646958063046,GradSchool
Thinking I'll probably drop out,"I made a horrible mistake. I went with a non-thesis degree when I should have done a thesis. My chances of ever working in research are basically zero at this point. I've tried to switch to a thesis program, but to no avail. If anyone here is looking to apply to grad school, follow my advice: don't slack off when it comes to finding advisors. It's a massive pain, but the alternative is worse.",0,0,0.19406886247297125,GradSchool
Do I need Physics II Lab for Pharmaceutical Science PhD?," Hi there,

I'm looking to apply to Pharmaceutical Science PhD programs around the U.S. in a couple years when I get my Bachelor's. I only have one more semester to get pre-req's in before starting a program, and it's pretty full. I'm taking Physics I and lab this semester, but I'm hoping I could maybe just take Physics II without the lab next semester without it hurting my grad school application. Any advice is appreciated, thanks!",2,0,0.20881423284334164,GradSchool
NSF GRFP,"Deadlines begin in one week.

Let us gather and pray that the NSF gods will be merciful...

How are everyone’s applications going?",6,7,0.7580156217322306,GradSchool
I feel all my colleagues think I'm a loser.,"I know this is imposter syndrome, but I feel like all my colleagues think poorly of me and think I am not a good scientist in my program. So, I am a 3rd year PhD student at a Top 10 institute for astrophysics and I nearly failed candidacy. I couldn't answer basic questions during my practice talk and it was embarrassing. I shut down halfway through since I felt so crappy about myself. I basically broke down afterwards and cried the entire weekend. I feel like such a loser and I think everyone in my program thinks poorly of me. I couldn't even answer basic questions related to my material. So, I passed actual candidacy but even then they sat down with me and told me I was disorganized and that I wrote about my topic too broadly. That by looking too broadly I didn't get to learn the material super in-depth like they were hoping. They told me that if I correct myself from now on then candidacy has served its purpose and that's why they passed me. Kind of like a wake up call. I deserved to fail and the only reason they passed me was because they felt sorry for me. No one fails candidacy at my school, so they must have not wanted to deal with that. 

I'm such a failure of a PhD student. Everyone around me is so much more talented and dedicated than I am and I'm scrounging around trying to come up with a new research project. I love the field, but I can't help to think that everyone is better than me. I'm really trying my best, but I can't around that I passed because they felt sorry for me. How do you get past these feelings? I feel like I'm about to cry right now.",8,11,0.914659140250749,GradSchool
Didn't do well on my first exam.,"First year PhD student. Got my score back for the first exam we took and I scored below the mean of the class and feel pretty discouraged by it. My next exam is this week and I've been studying hard, but now I feel worried I won't do well due to the grade I received on the first exam. The instructor even emailed me to let me know I am not in passing territory as it is.

I know I can still turn it around and work hard for the remaining exams. Finding out you did bad still sucks though, and has made me wonder if I should be here (imposter syndrome, I know). 

Wish me luck on my next exam, Reddit.",6,7,0.7955966402507489,GradSchool
Offer received without offer letter. How do I proceed?,"Hey guys! so i got accepted into one of my backup schools last week but I haven't received an offer letter. I found out about my acceptance on the applicant portal. 

[https://imgur.com/a/YwdH9su](https://imgur.com/a/YwdH9su)

&#x200B;

How do i find out the terms and conditions of the offer letter and also the last date to accept or reject the offer? I'm asking as I'm yet to hear from my target school and wouldn't want to make any hasty decisions. Is this normal? When I called the graduate admissions office at UoG they told me that I should have gotten my offer by now and that I should expect it soon. It's been a week and I still haven't heard back from them or received anything yet. 

&#x200B;

Please advise on how to proceed.",6,2,0.6837910846951936,GradSchool
What are the main things you look for when choosing a grad school?,"I am looking into grad schools and I was wondering if there were any key factors that I should be looking for. I found this article that includes a flowchart that is helpful (linked below), but I was wondering if anyone else had tips? 

[https://www.usa.edu/blog/how-to-choose-a-grad-school/](https://www.usa.edu/blog/how-to-choose-a-grad-school/)

Thanks :)",11,5,0.944346640250749,GradSchool
I didn’t do anything this weekend,And it felt great. Don’t give in to the over-work culture if you don’t have anything going on at the moment.,54,331,1.9176568254359343,GradSchool
Civil Engineering - Msc Students - Politecnico di Milano,"Hello fellow students,

I have applied for the Civil Engineering masters program for the Politecnico di Milano 2020/1 academic year. 

I am from Brazil and my GPA is 8.56/10 from a very reputable university in my country and did research during undergrad in the area of structural optimization (which eventually become a paper coauthored by me).

However, there’s little to no information about previous international students who got in the civil engineering masters program offered by Polimi.

So, is there anyone who has done/doing an MSc in Civil Engineering there who would be able to assess my chances or at least share their experience/profile? 

Thanks so much!",4,2,0.852460066176675,GradSchool
Is getting PhD harder than medical school?,"I’m thinking of dropping out of med school because honestly it’s sucking the life out of me and I find myself studying all day, almost everyday. I’m not doing well either as I’m barely passing. I’m thinking about doing a masters in psychology then pursue a PhD later, but there’s the opportunity cost. I had a 4.0 gpa in my undergrad in psychology and it’s something which has always interested me. I hear people saying how it’s really tough and they wouldn’t do it again. I would like some feedback from people’s different point of views so that I’ve a decent idea about how does it really feel to get into the PhD route. I wish I had done that prior attending med school.",13,2,0.8747517328433416,GradSchool
Getting a master's degree without going into debt?,"Hello academics! I am interested in pursuing a Master's in Public Health or related degree. I currently work in the health research field at a leading medical school. I'm wondering if y'all know of any good avenues for getting an MPH (or related degree) without having to pay a huge sum of money (such as special programs, scholarships, etc)! I've seen a few options through my own research, but I'm wondering what you all might know about this as people more plugged-in to the academic world. All thoughts and recommendations are welcome :)",4,2,0.8841961772877861,GradSchool
Burn-out prevention/coping thread,I've been seeing a lot of posts about people feeling burnt out and lacking motivation to finish their programs (I know all to well how real the burn out is) so I thought maybe it would be helpful if we started a thread to share some strategies that have helped to prevent or deal with burn out.  Grad school is tough and finding ways to take healthy breaks can be really difficult.,10,11,1.303420714324823,GradSchool
Tips to structure unstructured time,"Hello everyone,

I am a first-year Ph.D student. As you know, grad school is very much unstructured time. I have noticed since the beginning of the year that I struggle to structure my time in a way that's effective. I spend a lot of time surfing on the Internet and social media, and I do realize that this time could be best allocated elsewhere (for instance, working on publications and article ideas). I still manage to do most of what I have to do, but I feel like I could be more productive in a sense.

I don't believe i had this issue when I did my master's degree, even though it was thesis-based. I'm currently doing coursework, so my time will be even more unstructured after comps and I want to develop better time management habits as soon as possible.

For upper-years Ph.D. students, do you have any tips for me?",2,3,1.0136174735840824,GradSchool
How to address bad grades for classes outside my major in a personal statement?,"I'm trying to decide whether I should mention why I recieved bad grades in classes outside my major. Tbh I struggled with some of the class material. It wasn't a lack of studying. I take my education seriously. Some of the classes that I didn't do well on gave me anxiety which was a combination of who the professor was and how much material I didn't seem to understand. I never received any help for my anxiety but looking back I wished that I would have sought help. 

I don't want to make up an excuse about my grades but I also don't want the admissions office to question my ability to do well academically. 

Should I address why my GPA was low? I barely had above a 3.0",3,0,0.8043582143248231,GradSchool
Predatory Journals,"I finished a research paper - woo! I'm being pushed by professors to get it published and many are encouraging me to make a proposal for it to submit to 2020-21 conferences. When I asked for suggestions from my adviser on where to submit, I was given shrug and told to 'avoid the predators'. (I think he's just swamped with his 5/5 filled with a ton of undergrads facing midterms, honestly. He'll probably have a better answer in about two weeks). 

What are some red flags that you've come across that made you avoid submitting your work somewhere? Any additional advice, words of wisdom, or experiences you could share?",7,4,1.1269739550655637,GradSchool
Time commitment?,"I’m getting ready to apply for grad schools and want an idea of what people’s time commitment is to their program. I know I’m not going to be able to work even part time, and I know it’s gonna be time-consuming (both my parents have graduate degrees and said about 60 hrs/week was normal with some weeks being more than that by a minor or significant margin). What is your program and how much time per week are you putting into it? Do you have time to do other things on occasion? Go hiking, cook a good meal, play video games, etc? Maybe not every night but do you guys have time to unwind or is it just gonna be a long slog until I get the degree I want? I’d love to have my dog with me during grad school (she keeps me sane and happy) but IDK if I’d have time to care for her adequately and still complete all of my responsibilities.",4,1,0.820920714324823,GradSchool
"Strongly considering dropping out of my program after this year, any advice?","So I’m in a Statistics program in NYC and work full time, so it’s not like I’m going to have to find a job. I am having an issue with my professors and the quality of education that I’m getting because I honestly feel like it’s complete crap. I’m frustrated and at this point feel like I’m better off dropping out and either looking for other ways to learn what I want (data science) or go back to the drawing board and apply elsewhere in a year or so that has a better program with better instructors. I’m also basically failing my classes which is mostly a me issue and partly because I just don’t have good professors who teach properly. 

I would really appreciate any advice you guys have because I’m honestly really stressed out and close to withdrawing tomorrow.",4,1,0.8631660846951935,GradSchool
Depressing six weeks in PhD. . .,"Hi all.

I feel like I need to get this off my chest because. . . it's getting so hard to move forward. I moved to a new city to start my PhD in the beginning of September. I'm far away from home. I'm sure many of you have experienced this: losing the comfort of family, friends, daily routines, hobbies, and familiar locale. We all have to go back to square one, basically. Fix up your new home, reset your routines, find places to go for daily necessities, comfort, leisure, etc.

I was excited to start working in the lab and learning new things. I know I've got a lot of work to do because I'm practically changing fields as a chemist going into the biomedical sciences. I made the decision to come here because (a) I wanted to both expand my lab skills and deepen my understanding of medicine (my main research interest is in medicinal chemistry), and (b) I wanted to experience a different culture as I am hoping to really develop myself as a person. This is a beautiful city to live in. Everyone I met in my department has been nice and welcoming. However, around three weeks ago, I've realized that I am unable to do things. I cannot make friends even when everyone is being nice. I do try to form some bond with my colleagues. We talk, we laugh, we've gone out and had drinks. But I just cannot, for some reason, find enjoyment in being social. It's a pity. They're all good people.

I also cannot focus on work even though I want to be productive. I'm aware of this crippling imposter syndrome that I've got. I know so little. Everyone around me already knows so much. I just freeze. I already dread attending the journal clubs because I feel so embarrassed that I cannot keep up (I don't speak biology). I'm the only new student who is fumbling around. I'm afraid that my supervisor might think he made the wrong decision of choosing me. I've been here for six weeks and I cannot even build my own project.

The weather is only making it worse. The cold is not my friend. Every morning I struggle to get out of bed. My back is starting to hurt. I'm sweating a lot even though I feel like I'm freezing. When I'm in the lab I feel like I'm just waiting for the day to go by. Sometimes I get out of our building to take a walk to make myself feel better. It does not. I know I love running but somehow, after going out for a run a few times. . . I just feel guilty that I'm still not feeling any better. I just get tired and go to bed right after.

I talk to my mom on the phone. I explain to her how I'm feeling in my situation. She has given me words of encouragement, as all moms do. She says I've got to change my mindset and work as hard as I can. I honestly don't know if I'm capable. All I think about is going home. . .

Some of my lab mates have told me to give myself some time. I am just feeling a bit down because I just got here and I'm still in a bit of a shock. But I'm not sure how much longer I have to stay this way. When do I get myself out of this? How? I want to get better now. I really do.",3,3,1.1170433995100084,GradSchool
Feeling Lonely - so thought about reaching out (DM me),feeling lonely these days so reaching out on the threads I use most.,11,1,0.968247103213712,GradSchool
How to re-reviewe a revised and resubmitted article?,"I recently was invited to peer review a research study (yay! my first time doing this!). I recommended major revisions. The authors have gone above and beyond addressing my and other reviewers' concerns, and the paper is drastically improved. What should I write about the new review? Can I, in a few sentences, summarize the improvements and recommend acceptance, or do I need to give a full length, detailed review? I am very new to this and trying to learn.",2,2,1.155585066176675,GradSchool
Regarding the Chem subject exam; am I screwed?,"TL,DR: I, partially by my own fault, may have gotten screwed out of the Chem subject exam but have some pretty good credentials otherwise and am curious how much this might impact my chances at some of the “higher-tier” schools I’m applying to.

Alright, I’ll start with a disclaimer; I’m not trying to brag about anything here nor do I need to hear “you brought this upon yourself” because I am well aware I did. Thanks!

On to my mess.

I’ve been waiting to register for the chemistry GRE until I can reasonably drop the $150.00 after paying this month’s rent and paying the $200.00 for the general GRE. I finally got the change together (I work two part time jobs during school), but it appears that the chem subject test may not be offered again until April 4th of 2020 (even though it still has a “Y” instead of an “N” on their website).

I am a senior with all of my undergraduate requirements complete I have a 3.93 overall and 3.97 major GPA on a 4.00 scale. These include graduate courses in chemistry and do not include the four semesters of A’s for undergraduate research that will be going in shortly. I have been involved heavily in research for over two years, having presented my work at numerous conferences, and was recently invited to present at yet another on the hosting university’s dime. I recently received a Goldwater scholarship and also completed a competitive internship over the summer at a top pharmaceutical company doing organic synthesis (similar to the medicinal chemistry I do at school).  I have also received two fellowships through my school and a national ACS award.

My rec letters, to my knowledge, are solid (they have been successful and come from reputable people but obviously I’ve never read them). My personal statement is reasonably strong.

I do plan to apply to some of the “top ten” schools. How much of a detriment will the lack of a subject test be to my application? Any help would be appreciated, and I’m trying to get into contact with ETS to potentially get this sorted.

Thanks much for your time and any feedback.",0,0,1.0111753439544526,GradSchool
Collaborative Academic Writing,"Hello, I am writing my first collaborative article with 5 other co-authors. Is there a way to coordinate it effectively? I have to admit that I don't really know how to go about writing an article with 5 people.",1,1,1.012309603213712,GradSchool
MBA or Technical Masters coming from accidental fintech developer background,"Hi All,

I've been tearing my hair out over this, and was hoping I could seek some internet advice.

One of my general life goals is to  attain a masters degree.  I love learning, feel like I'm my ""best self"" at school, and have felt lacking something ever since I graduated from undergrad in 2014 with dual majors in economics and finance.

When I was an idealistic youth back in undergrad, I wanted to do finance and law, so I got my finance and econ dual degrees, and ended up getting an internship (then job) on a desk at an institutional asset manager.  The plan was to then go to law school in a few years.  I had a good GPA,  test well on standardized tests so that fit my plan.

Eventually, I ended up getting into software development at my company after the team lead convinced me to try it.  I've been doing that for \~3 or 4 years and am now a senior engineer working on proprietary portfolio management software.  I really like it, and make decent money. However, I still want to go to grad school.  Here is my conundrum:

I don't know whether to do part time or full time school, and then whether to get an MBA or pursue a technical masters, like one in Data Science.  I really like the technical side of what I do, but I also really like leadership and big-picture strategy

If I got into a top tier school, I'd go full time.  If not, I'd prefer part time because I like my job (and I like having income).  That said, ""top tier"" is kind of an arbitrary line.

I'm old (27) for top tier MBAs.   Having 5-6 years of work experience definitely does not help for top tier schools.  I know MBAs definitely drop off in value after the top 20 or so, and I really would really love to go to a top school.  

I also don't have a STEM background.  I kind of backed into my software role.  I'd like to think I'm good at it, but I definitely know I was asked to join the team based on my financial knowledge, not because they saw me as a Zuck in the making.  With that, if I wanted a technical masters, I'd need to take a year's worth of Math pre-reqs (Calc 1- 3, and linear algebra) at minimum.  I could do that at a community college, but I'm not getting any younger in the meantime.

My  biggest fears are:

1. I get into a decent full time MBA program, graduate, and then can't get software a job in anything outside of project management due to lack of STEM undergrad, thus cutting my software development career short which would be rather unfortunate because I like what I do.

And

2.  I take my math pre-reqs, apply to technical programs, don't get accepted, and then am a year older and less competitive for MBA applications.

Any advise or recommendations would be much appreciated.  Should I go the technical route? MBA?  Go back to my old plan and go to law school (already had one career change from finance to tech).",6,1,1.0175642328433416,GradSchool
3rd year and I just need to rant,"I’m a third year grad student (medical professional field) after 5 yrs undergrad. 

I feel like no one understands what it’s like to be a grad student unless you are one. I can tell you
I’m stressed until I’m blue in the face, but it’s a stress you can’t explain. 

You thought high school was bad? You thought undergrad was bad? You thought first/second year of grad school were bad?

I feel like I’m dumber than everyone around me, but I’m a 3.5 student so I know I’m not. 

I feel like I’m constantly drowning and playing catch up, just running on a treadmill trying to keep up and never getting ahead. I feel completely alone and like every other student is well-organized and on top of their work while I’m behind and drowning. 

I feel like all the students are always in competition. No one wants to show weakness and admit they’re drowning. 

Self care? Ha. I’ve pulled an all-nighter before every exam for the last 2+ years (and we have an exam every 5 days or so.) 

I skip class to catch up. I cancel social events to study, but STILL fall behind. 

I barely sleep. When I do sleep, my sleep schedule is ALL over the place. From entirely nocturnal one day to diurnal the next. When I do sleep, it’s for 15-18 hours. 

I’m stressed and it makes me nauseous or not want to eat. I never drink water - I survive on soda, juice, and tea. 

I’ve been in college 8 years and I feel like I’m still scrambling for the right study method. My old methods just don’t work for 3rd year grad school - just too much material And not enough time. 

I’m in hundreds of thousands of dollars of debt and I still have no money for living expenses. 

I haven’t been to the gym in over a year because there’s just no time. 

I haven’t been involved in any of my hobbies due to where I live for school, financial constraints, time constraints, stress, and the guilt of not studying. 

I procrastinate because I just don’t want to study, but I can’t even relax because I feel guilty every second I’m not studying. 

I walk into every exam feeling like I’m going to fail - despite the fact that I’ve never failed an exam. I could always study MORE. There is no “done”. 

In undergrad, you have time to go over all the material multiple times. In grad school, you’re lucky if you get through all the material ONCE. 

My program has no summer breaks, so the most we get is 2 weeks between semesters. It’s not enough time to recover before diving right back in, so I feel like I’ve been going non stop for 2+ years. 

I’m dealing with IBS, heartburn, nausea, hemorrhoids/fissures, constipation/diarrhea, horrible breakouts, headaches/migraines, depression, TMJ/jaw clenching, nightmares, fatigue, skin picking, insomnia and hypersomnia, and anxiety. 

I’m burnt out and I have no motivation to study the subject that I love.

(Edit: Am seeing a therapist already.)",12,6,1.3891498809914897,GradSchool
Advice Needed! Admissions/GRE Score,"So, i need some honest advice. I’m applying to ChemE PhD programs. Just took the GRE, and fucked up hard on quant. Got 159Q/159V. I had been getting low to mid 160’s on all practice material.

With a 3.8 UG GPA, research in 3 labs, 3 author/co-author poster presentations at conferences, an REU, and some honors distinctions, is it worth retaking? Also, working full-time at the moment.",1,0,1.0514183995100084,GradSchool
Finally submitted by thesis!,"I finally submitted my thesis, I’m overall happy with it but I know I could have done more in the intro with more time - but the stress of it had been over my head, and I just wanted it in. I’ll take corrections over this.",1,8,1.5492656217322305,GradSchool
Looking for fellowships,Just wondering if anyone out in the ether knows of any fellowships that a second year engineering PhD student can apply to (I've reviewed the GRFP qualifications and I'm 99.9% certain I don't qualify since I'm in my second year and already hold a masters degree).,3,0,1.0570549735840824,GradSchool
“Cheap” graduate schools for Economics?,"Every time I try to google this only online programs come up. 

My GPA will be >3.5 when I graduate, so I don’t know how scholarships will work. I also go to a state school, not a prestigious school. Still need to take a GRE; I didn’t even consider graduate school until today. 

I would love to get into Duke, but that $55k a year is not something I’d sign up for. 

Also I’m based in NY, so if I could stay here that’d be lovely!",4,0,1.091210066176675,GradSchool
I just.... can't.,"Sorry for yet another depressing post here, but hoping maybe someone will have some advice for me, since I feel like I've tried every trick in the book...

Long story short - 6th year grad student, couple papers away from getting out of here, and have just lost all motivation.  A lot of it is mental health related, yes I'm medicated and yes I'm in therapy, but in the short term I kind of just need to push through it.  At the moment I'm weeks behind on getting a manuscript draft sent to collaborators, supposed to present a poster in a few days that I haven't started yet, advisor is talking about academic probation... and yet I've just spent the entire day sitting on the couch watching youtube videos (probably to keep myself from thinking or feeling).  I've tried breaking tasks down into tiny little pieces; I've tried rewarding myself, I've tried punishing myself; I've tried asking other people to hold me accountable; I've tried starting with the easiest part, starting with the hardest part, starting with something non-work-related just to get me in the swing of being productive... but nothing seems to work for more than a few minutes at a time.

Obviously this is not sustainable, obviously this is going to come crashing down any day now, but I just can't seem to force myself to GET THE DAMN WORK DONE!  A lot of it isn't even that hard, if I could just get myself to even try.  Is it laziness?  Is it depression?  Is it lack of motivation, lack of focus, lack of executive function?  No idea, but whatever it is, it's about to make my life implode, so any suggestions for where to go from here would be greatly appreciated....",5,12,1.680122103213712,GradSchool
Help!!! I'm eating like crap!!!,"&#x200B;

I’m working full time and “going” to grad school full time.  I say “going” because it’s an online program to get a Masters in Health Informatics. Still, I’m doing roughly 30-35 hours/week on school stuff. 

I live in Chicago and have many options for food delivery, but it’s an expensive, unhealthy habit that I HAVE to break!  The problem is, I’m a terrible cook.  I was a terrible cook BEFORE going back to school!  I also live alone so I ending up wasting so much!

Night after night I realize it’s 9pm and I haven’t eaten dinner.  I SAY next time I’ll meal plan, but I’m just clueless.

So now my pants aren’t fitting and I AM NOT going a size up!  I REFUSE!

What the hell do you guys do?  I was thinking of getting a juicer.  I don’t know when my last vegetable was.  I had a peach 2 weeks ago.   But, isn’t juicing expensive?  I mean, it’s not like I haven’t spent my paycheck on food delivery or anything.

What about an Instapot?  One of those zucchini twirl thingies to replace that with regular pasta noodles?

I’m depressed, I’m lonely, I’m eating like crap, I’m not working out because I’m too busy eating like crap and feeling sorry for myself.

I need some Reddit guidance.  And a kick in the ass. ",79,97,2.164045714324823,GradSchool
I'm almost finished with writing the first chapter of my thesis,"I'm tired, I haven't been sleeping, I've been eating junk, my apartment is a mess, and I haven't showered in three days but I'M ALMOST FINISHED! I've just got my conclusion for the first chapter to somehow squeeze out of my pulped brain! Then it's a full chapter! 

Of course there's editing to do, and some rewriting of the introduction as usual, but that's par for the course. I'm 25 pages deep and so proud of myself for putting together something that I assume is half okay and relatively coherent! 

This was just my way of turning my brain back on for that final push. Y'all can ignore this. I just needed to tell someone who wasn't the other grad student in the office who is also in a mental pulp state. GO ME!",3,22,1.8652957143248232,GradSchool
The importance of stupidity in scientific research,,9,60,2.096510992102601,GradSchool
Good Impact Factor,"What's considered to be a good impact factor for Chemical Engineering Journals?
I know there is no difinite number, but like the norm from your experince",4,2,1.3910480291396379,GradSchool
I don't have any social life and I feel miserable,"I will probably delete it at some point because I will probably be embarrassed. Even so, I am still writing it because I need to vent it to yall anonymous people. Just bear with me please. 

I am a foreign student currently doing master's thesis. My family isn't well off enough to fund me for masters, but thankfully I am on funded master's program in science. At first, I was so excited...but eventually, the excitement wore off and frustration built up. Here are couple things:

1. I live with my mom. Yes, a lot of people prefer living with their parents due to financial reasons, and this is true for me as well. But here is the thing. THat's it. In fact, if we didn't have enough money, I would be living with someone of my age. 

My mom, just like me, is a non-native speaker but because she is far older than I, she will probably never be as good as I am. However, she is a green card holder(I m not), works full time among other Americans and does great job. We both pay rent and utility 50/50. She is hardworking. However, I have to take care of everything else. If something breaks in our apartment, I have to call someone to fix it. If there is a wrong bill in our utility, I have to fix it. If there are roaches or crickets, I have to buy stuff to kill it. Basically, if something that is ever so slightly complicated, I have to take care of it on top of my own responsibility. I also cook for both of us because she is as stronga as a lonley twig that you can find in your yard, and she is far too tired to cook for herself at the end of the day. In fact, I take care of 75% of housework. Fuck, I even use some of my own money to help her pay for her credit card debt, which she accrued to take care of me in the past! 

I mentioned that she is as strong as an abandoned twig...yes, she complains a lot about physical pain, more so recently. She wasn't properly breastfed, so I guess thats why she is so fragile. She, just like me, doesn't have much social life other than having some phone calls with her friends in other states, which is still more than mine. 

Oh, did I mention how much she complains despite her denials? She complains that there is weird smell from sink there is barely, complains about bugs, about a laundry filter, about bathtub, everything! She also complains about her keys 'not working well' to lock the door when it works just fine. One time, she even told me to come back and lock the door because ""the lock was broken"" when I was already in a bus to go to my class. I dind't go back and told her to do it herself because the lock wasn't definitely broken. Can you imagine how annoying it is to have an overbearing, clingy parent who keeps messaing you at 7PM about when I will come home??

 

2. My lab is full of nice people, and my department is very supportive of students...but people in my particular lab are so boring. I have couple friends in different schools who are  pursuing Ph.D or M.D., and from what I know based on my conversations with them, their labmates seem to be...interesting enough to hang out. You know, go for some drinks, play card games, etc. I visited my friend in Georgia, and he invited me to play poker with his graduate school 'neighbor's. That was the most fun experience I ever had since I started my masters. 

We, on the other hands, barely interact outside the school. There are like 6 people in our lab, where one is an annoying stubborn lab technician, one is an old lab manager (as old as my mom), one female student who has a boyfriend, one post doc and one Ph.D who are good people but insufferably boring, and another international student that I barely talk to. Am I on friendly terms with them? Yes. Do I actually socialize with them? No. 

Perhaps it's just that we are too busy on our own and have no commonalities to hang out at all ,and I am being an asshole. I don't know. Either way, I feel incredibly lonely. My best friend from my undergrad is in medical school, and I don't wnat to bother him too much(especially because I am a guy). What's funny is that I didn't have much social life either in college or high school, but at least I had someone to chat with at least and go out for dinner. Now? I am completely alone.

3. And on top of that, there is a general anti-immigration politics going around, and even though I am not one of those migrants and undocumented people that the media yammer about left and right, there's definitely heavy stone inside me that I can't seem to get rid of. I plan to become a GC holder within next few years, but I have had this unreasonable fear that my plan will fail due to some random fuck ups somewhere and I will lose everything that i have worked for, and I will be jobless. 

Do I mind helping out my mom? Mostly, no. Did I have rose dream about having the best fun time in grad school? Absolutely not. But all this pressure and stresses coming from my absolute zero social activities are driving me insane and cost me my work drive. Now, I just want to give up everything, lie down and do nothing, but I can't do that. If I do, I will have to leave the USA otherwise become an illegal alien, and if I do go back, what's left for me? My home country is notorious for employee abuse, name privilege, age hierarchy and age discrimination. 

I can't give up everything I worked for, but this black pit of loneliness has plagued me for months, and I never felt this isolated before. And this is coming from someone who never had and wanted more than 2 or 3 friends.

Thanks for reading my random rant.

TL;DR. Researching, taking care of most of house work and my vulnerable mom, no social life has become too much for me and I have no drive whatsoever.",0,1,1.2654924735840825,GradSchool
Wage expectation for a Graduate hourly lab tech/research assistant job? (Northeast),"Long story short, I have had spotty contact with a PI working in their lab. It felt like pulling teeth to communicate via email with her, but I finally went in for an interview and nailed it. The interview went well and it felt more like a conversation and brain storming session of how to address this project delegated to me. I walked out feeling great after she discussed the project(s) she wants me working on and my long-term goals to incorporate some work into my MPH fieldwork requirement. I was supposed to hear from her with follow up last week to get started and still haven't heard squat after following up myself.

SOMEHOW after getting caught up in the conversation, salary was never discussed and I do not want to get low-balled. I have a good deal of experience with a certain arachnid during the summer, working full-time in the field (shit wages). I have a friend with research assistant experience that says she makes 18 an hour.",2,1,1.268108214324823,GradSchool
PhD (Management) feedback and Imposter Syndrome : how do you guys do it ?,"Hey guys, happy to post here for the first time !

I'll be applying for Organizational Behavior PhDs shortly (sept 2020 intake) and i'd love to have some feedback from postgrads in this field, or even other fields. I experience kind of an imposter syndrome right now (I don't feel legitimate applying to selective programs, or even PhD at all) and I guess i'm looking for a bit of support too ?

Some backstory : Msc student from a good french business school (Top 4), got some research experience (did a 6 months research internship in a OB department of an average/bad university in Japan), very average gpa (13.5 in French system, around 3.5 i guess ?), still haven't passed gmat/gre. I've spent the last 2 years doing an apprenticeship in the industry (hence the not so great gpa) and I realized it wasn't meant for me, so i'm switching back to my original plan, research.

I'm mostly interested in the metamorphosis of work, the individual/societal relationship to work (happiness, fulfillment, unpaid work, etc) and how does it relate to welfare economics (UBI, social security ..).

I'd really like some feedback on some OB programs, which departments you'd recommend me and if i'm really out-of-line thinking about doing a PhD.

I wonder too if anyone has this imposter syndrome and how they deal with it ?

Thanks a lot !

Edit : spelling",0,0,1.3754693254359343,GradSchool
Sent my thesis advisor a completed first draft of my prospectus today!,"After months of researching and meetings and like 15 drafts of research questions to figure out the perfect wording for my study, today I finally sent in a completed first draft of my thesis prospectus/the first 3 chapters of my thesis to my advisor!! I didn’t anticipate feeling such high levels of excitement upon completion, but I feel exhilarated! Typing up the closing sentiments in the conclusion was so relieving I actually felt stress lift out of my body and dissipate. Now to await feedback from my advisor...",0,5,1.7878420106211195,GradSchool
Profile for Masters in Mathematics.,"I'm currently doing my undergraduate studies in mathematics from a Tier 2 University. And I plan to pursue my Masters from a well recognised University in mathematics. My question is that how should I build my profile and what element should I have in my profile, to get into a good University to study mathematics.",0,0,1.3309901587692676,GradSchool
"""Stay Hungry, Stay Foolish: What do I eat? ""","As a soon to be grad student, I'll be moving to  a new continent, thousands of miles away. Grad school, list most of you know a nd some of us will find out- is challenging and requires a lot of time and attention. This requires you to maintain a proper diet and not starve yourself. 

So here's a simple question to all of you- 

1. did you know how to cook when you moved out? 
2. what are some common and easily available things you should buy along with your groceries? 
3. what do you cook and how much of it ?
4. how often do you go grocery shopping?",4,1,1.6049600661766752,GradSchool
Discussing a paper that I have no clue about?,I have been assigned to discuss a paper in an academic conference that is not my area and that I have no clue about. I hate just reading it. Suggestions?,3,5,1.985897566176675,GradSchool
"I would love to get some info on going to graduate school, but I don’t have anyone to talk to about it","I graduated in May with a computer science degree, and I’ve been wanting to go to graduate school since I was a freshman. Unfortunately, my alma mater doesn’t offer CS grad school so I was wondering if I could have some help. First off, I’m broke. I need to apply for scholarships and loans if I’m going to do any of this. In addition, when does my deferment start? I realize I couldn’t get in to probably next fall with current matriculation dates, but if I got approved for then, when does my loan deferment start? Next fall or when I report acceptance and am signed up to start? That is if I can sign up once/if I’m accepted? Are there scholarships and loans for graduate school? I don’t want to sound entitled or foolish, but I literally have no way I paying so I would need to be all scholarship and loan. How do I even apply to grad school? I’m sorry to come with nothing to the table, but I’ve always wanted to go and I want to make this happen. The real benefit to doing it now instead of waiting is that I don’t have a job and I haven’t been able to get a job, so the loan deferment would really be a help. That definitely is not a decider and I still want to apply if it won’t help, but it definitely is a nice bonus. So far I’ve looked at Georgia Tech’s online program because I’ve heard it’s cheap and good, but I’m open as long as it’s an online program. Thank you so much in advance!",1,3,1.8809207143248232,GradSchool
What's the most you've written in a day?,"I'm just curious! (I'm trying to get the first draft of my thesis finished tomorrow, but it's looking like it won't happen—because I'm a horrendously slow writer, haha.)",8,1,1.6522748809914898,GradSchool
I've decided I'm going to drop out of school.,"I can't take it anymore. I've only been in school for a month and a half and I'm just done. I don't care about my degree. I don't care about what I'm learning. I hate my professors. I hate being there. I've been miserable ever since I got there. Once this semester is over, I'm dropping out. I can't wait for this nightmare to end.",13,3,1.821881362472971,GradSchool
Is it ok to join an ongoing project for my thesis?,"I'm a first year, biochemistry master student.
I am interested in drug delivery and neuroscience and aspires to work abroad in industry. 
In my school students pay for their thesis costs, and even more often this year due to major cuts in funding.
After some meetings and emails I found a professor who works with genetics and stem cells and has already started working on a fully funded project.
She gave me an offer to take on this project for my thesis where I only have to pay bench fees (USD1300~). 
Now if I work with another professor, not funded but in my field of interest, covering all research needs will probably cost me (USD6000~) 
Now I'm very likely to take this project but I need to know the pros and cons. 
Is it ok to work on an ongoing project as a thesis? What about originality? What skills will I be missing out on? Would this make me less favored for positions in biotech and pharmaceutical industry?

As senior gradstudents and maybe professors, what do you think about this whole matter? Your opinion would be real helpful! 

TLTR: Master thesis project of my choosing with no funding vs. Funded project that is already set up and out of my interest?",14,15,2.3221128439544527,GradSchool
3rd Year Science Undergrad Student Looking At PhD in Toxicology ... Need some advice! [Canadian],"Alright so I'm a 3rd year undergrad student looking to find a career specifically in toxicology. It sounds like a great career to get into and I'm really interested in the field.  My undergrad program right now is specialized in pathology (with courses related to Tox), and I'll be doing a thesis in 4th year. 

To give some groundwork, here are some of my stats:

- cGPA 3.93 over first 2 years... Expected to raise in last two.
- 1 Publication Nature Scientific Reports 
- 2 months full time lab work in world renowned medical biophysics lab
- Currently working in University lab, projected 1 year (possible publication)
- (in future) Thesis project for 1 year

My main question I guess is how to improve my chances of perhaps getting into a direct entry PhD program, specifically in toxicology. I know UofT has a collaborative specialization in Tox, but I'm sure that's a really hard program to get into. What can I do now to raise my chances of getting into this field of work? Also, would you guys recommend going to the states/apply there? Thanks! Any advice is greatly appreciated!",1,0,1.7403535846951936,GradSchool
Good Grad Schools for Microbiome Reseach!,"Dear Reddit,

I am planning to apply for PhD programs to do research on specifically the Gut Microbiome! (I also have interest in working with animals and 

&#x200B;

Since there are so many programs out there, it would be very time consuming to go through all the professors so I thought it would be a good idea to  ask reddit which schools in America have good professors and research in the Microbiome field!

&#x200B;

I would love to hear your opinions!!",1,1,1.7405156217322306,GradSchool
Technical interview questions for PhD in Data Science?,"I just get an technical interview in a few days for PhD in Data Science and I'm wondering what kind of questions will probably appear since this is kinda a new field.

I have been working in the industry building & evaluating machine learning models for a few years so I'm okay with practical concepts in this field, but I'm not so sure about academic & research level. Anyone has any idea? Thank you.",0,1,1.789971640250749,GradSchool
Looking for advice about getting a Master's of Library and Information Science," 

I currently work in a Digital Humanities Center in a university library. My title is office associate, but I also work on digital humanities projects (two digital archives projects). The pay is $31k a year, which is enough for me to live comfortably (in Nebraska) but is not ideal either. And I have health and dental insurance through the university, which is great.

I have a bachelor's degree in English. I would like to keep learning, develop hard skills, and get paid more (I'd kill to make $50k a year). One benefit of working at the university is that I can take up to 15 credit hours of classes a year for free. I got close to applying for the English master's program, but I decided that I wasn't interested enough in my school's English graduate program to push through 2-3 years of taking classes and working full time. Library and Information Science seems more interesting to me and more applicable to the work I'm doing now and the types of jobs that I would be interested in working at in the future. The school I work at has three different library master's: elementary education, secondary education, and literacy —none of which I'm very interested in, even though they would be free. I'm much more interested in a MLIS in archival studies, digital humanities, user experience, or data analytics. I want a more technology focused program. I'm not interested in being a school librarian.

So, considering all of this, my plan is to get an online MLIS in a concentration I'm actually interested in while continuing to work full time at my digital humanities center job. This would mean spending roughly $10,000-$20,000. I believe I could take some of the courses through the university I work at and transfer the credits, which would reduce the price a bit. For a little more context, I am 30 years old and recently married. Moving to a different city or being a full time student would be challenging right now, but not totally impossible.

I know an MLIS is a low ROI master's, but I'm not sure what else I could realistically get at this point in my life.

TLDR: Is it crazy of me to spend money on an online MLIS when I have the option to get a master's for free (but in a field I'm not very interested in)?

Thanks for reading.",0,6,2.189173029139638,GradSchool
I am BURNT OUT.,"I am in a fine arts masters program. I moved 800 miles away and I have no nearby family and my boyfriend could not move with me. 

I'm in my third semester, so I've been at this for over a year now. It hasn't been easy, but it's been tolerable and I've been able to just absorb myself in the work. However I'm now at thesis creation which I have been working on since June. For an MFA, it's not just a 40 page research paper, but I literally have to go out and make the work that I will then write about in my thesis paper. Due to my medium, this requires me to travel, to have long fieldwork days, to bring all the work back to my mentors only to tell me that I'm not doing enough or they don't get it.

I've been writing, journaling, producing work, attempting to finish the assignments for my other classes, and meeting with mentors. Everyone pulls me in different projects with the work that I literally had a nervous breakdown last weekend. I have four jobs on campus, none of which I can quit because I need the money to pay my rent and to have the ability to make my thesis. Traveling and the supplies I need to make my art are putting me into credit card debt.

I'm trying to have self-care by keeping my house clean, taking care of myself, watching crap TV in my downtime, and I just contacted a personal trainer for the gym. I feel like I have exhausted my thesis committee, my boyfriend, and cohort on how relentless the work feels and how tired I feel. But everyone tells me its just part of the process and that it's temporary, and that I'm doing everything I can. I have a history of panic attacks and I feel like I'm becoming more susceptible. I had a therapist over the summer but he was not a good fit so I stopped going. The therapists at the university just want to hand you a prescription and I am not interested in getting back onto antidepressants.

**The suspended state of stress and uncertainty for months on end feels extremely unhealthy.** 

Yet another rant here. I'm just lost.",33,158,2.9785248809914897,GradSchool
Canadian grad students! What GPA is competitive for the NSERC CGS-M?,"What kind of profile did you have if you got it?

Thanks so much!",11,8,2.3108628439544527,GradSchool
"has anyone use this that lets you get free full text of papers? has high ratings, and is recently updated but i've never seen it work for me (i have js off tho and that could be why)",,2,0,1.8567656217322306,GradSchool
Feeling a little pressured,"TLDR/ in program on fellowship, feeling pressured by faculty to do extra well but may be in my head.

So I just started my MA in history, and went back to my alma mater because they're straight-up paying for it with a fellowship and it gives me a little time to decide what I'm doing. I took two years off after undergrad.

I'm feeling very pressured by expectations in the department. It's a good department but most of the students are going to finish after this MA/focusing on teaching. The department clearly expects me to go on to my PhD because I'm more of an academic solely I guess?

The department waived me into a postseminar I wasn't really qualified for (I didn't understand what it was) so I'm taking the prereq and the course at the same time. Basically doing my thesis as a first semester grad student. I'm doing tons of reader-grader work. The professor for the graduate course I took as an undergrad mentioned I did that to some of my cohort. Just kinda feeling pressuring to be perfect. Is it just in my head/my anxiety disorder?

/rant over",2,0,1.9519623809914899,GradSchool
#number of publications needed for PhD,"If I want a scholarship/assistantship in lets say one of the top 50 universities in US/UK to take my PhD in Engineering as an international student, how much do I need to publish before applying ? and whats the middle ground between the paper quality and the journal's impact factor to the number of publication needed ?

I know there is no definite answer for all cases, but looking forward to read your thoughts and experiences , thanks.",6,0,1.9552841402507493,GradSchool
"I’m not going into Academia and that’s ok, better than ok.","After a couple years of feeling like I’m running towards a finish line that keeps moving further away, I finally feel ok about where I am. I love my research project, and always have, but realistically I’m significantly behind the curve if I wanted to go into academia after my PhD. For a long time, I thought that I did. But after connecting with people, working around, and thinking about what will make me happy, I’m ok with not going into academia. In fact, I’m more than ok. I’m happy and I feel hopeful. I can finally see a light at the end of the tunnel, the finish line has stopped moving, and I know I’ll be all good when I make it onto the other side with my PhD.",13,42,2.880353584695193,GradSchool
Going for Urban Studies with a BS in an unrelated field (CS),"I majored in CS and graduated with a 3.95 from UGA and currently work at a top cloud computing company as a software engineer. I graduated last year and can’t help but feel I made a huge mistake, I am not as passionate about this field as I thought I was.

Is it possible to go from a STEM degree -&gt; humanities MA/PhD? I don’t have strong research experience but I have the grades and great (albeit unrelated) work experience. I also have some interesting experiences like a study abroad at the University of Oxford, where I took some upper division English and History courses and did well. I’m going to work on studying for the GRE but I don’t anticipate it being an issue because I’m good at exams. 

I want to become a more well rounded individual, and I hate that my undergraduate studies were so narrow. I’m ultimately interested in working in urban policy.

My current path is optimal financially. I’m probably in the top 1 percent in terms of earnings for new grads. My life is devoid of meaning, though, and I feel I have to dedicate my time to something else in order to ever do something impactful. I’m still sketching out what this means for me, but I’ve been an ardent admirer of cities, urbanism, and architecture since I was young. I’d like to study urban policy, particularly with a focus on public housing reform. I’m interested in retaining class equality in our American cities in a time where global capital is aggressively co-opting and privatizing them.

I’m not well read as I would like, although I suppose this is something I could pick up in my own time. I’m interested in the design of public housing and how it can designed to be more economically integrative and socially pliable, as opposed to the towered albatrosses we see in cities like New York today. Vienna and Singapore have shown success in this, and I would like to explore how this could be integrated into American urban environments. I’d particularly like to explore how the development how new American housing policy that I’m proposing would contrast with the political, economic, and cultural effects of housing policy in the 20th century.

This is personally meaningful to me as well as I moved to New York City this year and have personally seen the impacts of hyper-gentrification and rising housing costs, my idea was that I could weave this into some sort of personal statement.",2,0,2.0636406217322305,GradSchool
Dissertation help,"Hi Everyone, I’m a part time student studying a masters program in design management. I have managed to pass all the modules up til the dissertation. Initially I had a very different research topic and was later advices to change by the TAs. Long story short, I have compromised with the TAs advice and tried to follow their suggested research. It was a very last minute change and in result I have failed and needed to resubmit.

My biggest struggle for the dissertation is the given research aim “How spatial design adds value to Hong Kong’s shopping mall by enhancing the visitor’s experience.”

This was the suggested research aim by the TA and I have difficulty planning out my research questions as following:
1. What is the context of shopping mall spatial design in Hong Kong?
2. How will visitor experience affect the market and attractiveness?
3. What are the factors that govern the visitor’s journey?
4. How can spatial design contribute to enrich the journey?
5. Who are the audiences of the enhancements of shopping experience?
6. What are the recommendations to the spatial designers in enhancing visitor’s experience?

The TAs has suggested for me to rewrite the literature review in analysing the knowledge gap in redesigning the research questions. If anyone have any recommendation would be great help.",0,1,2.2805850661766747,GradSchool
Applying for one year scholarship. Would it make sense to include protocol of proposed collaboration study?,"Hey guys, i'm doing bioinformatics and there is this one year scholarship from large company, with commission consisting of mainly academics. I don't yet have published papers, but will attach some interesting results and skill presentations. Additionally, i have proposed a study with for profit company and they have shown some interest asking for additional details etc, but nothing yet finalised or funded.

Would it make sense to write about it in my scholarship motivation as well as add whole study transcript with summary? Hope to hear from someone with experience in such commissions or applying for scholarships.

Also, i have done a youtube ""street interview"" kind of video which was partly addressing popularisation of bioinformatics related topic, has 1k views. I am wondering wether or not it's appropriate to include it as ""social activity"".

tl;dr Is a planned study protocol something to add to your scholarship motivation?",0,0,2.286476269880379,GradSchool
Whoop whoop!,I finished two days of on demand comprehensive exams today! Oral defense date is set for 10/28. One foot in front of the other....,1,18,2.9631660846951933,GradSchool
[For Hire] The Best of The Best Writing Services,"Allow me to introduce myself. My name is **Jack O. Allan**. I am an EFL writer. For a long time now, I have been helping students on reddit to  deliver their  assignments on time while observing strict adherence to instructions and formatting guidelines. 

In my line of work, I have collaborated with notable writing service providers such as **Uvocorp, Writerbay, Course Hero, 4Writers, Chegg, up work, and Academia Research**, and as such, I confidently guarantee the quality of my work. Additionally, I check projects through Copyscape and Turnitin, and to further ensure the authenticity of my work, every submission I make comes with a Plagiarism Report.

Hiring me  is very simple and friendly. The step by step procedure is as follows;

**1) Send me an email (writers4hiretoday@gmail.com)**

**2) Cut a deal with me ($15 per APA page)**

**3) Send all the instructions and the deadline to my email.**

**4) Sit back and relax as I do the job and deliver**

**5) Review my work. (Top-notch)**

**6) pay after reviewing and making sure it is up to your standards and expectation.**

**7) Close the deal with a thank you note and contact me again whenever you need more help : )**

**Feel free to contact me on any queries regarding proof or assistance in academics; papers, essays, discussions, assignments, and homework. I also take over full classes and do timed exams and quiz.**

I promise Full Confidentiality of all projects I undertake. My variable rates start at $15 per page. The price is the best. Trust me, this is the most customer friendly service in the market, writing companies will charge you thrice the amount. My statement is evidence-based.

**You may also want to follow me on /r/writers4hire/**

**Thank you for your time.**",1,0,2.0711406217322303,GradSchool
"For someone potentially interested in applying to a PhD program in the social sciences, will not having done a significant original research project before hurt?"," I'm right now pursuing a course-based Masters, but potentially interested in applying for a PhD later on. The 3-year programs in Europe are appealing for their short length, but I'm wondering if doing a course-based Masters without an original research thesis from a top-ranked school will hurt me vs. first doing a Masters that includes a thesis component? My Masters does include courses in research methodologies, if that makes a difference...",9,25,3.404022566176675,GradSchool
talk lab books to me!,"hey r/gradschool! a curious physicist here: do you, and how, you guys keep your lab books? we get ours ordered by our PI and i fill mine in daily, colour-coded and with all relevant plots/papers/etc in it, but i'm curious about other ideas. On paper, electronically, combinations...? Would love to hear your ideas and/or tips!",7,5,3.120203121732231,GradSchool
How to work toward getting into top grad schools without burning myself out,"Hello r/GradSchool, I'm a third-year undergrad student who plans on pursuing a PhD in my field (Materials Science & Engineering). As of now, my dream is to become a MSE professor. I'm very aware of how difficult it can be to obtain a faculty position nowadays, so I'm truly shooting for the best grad schools possible (given that they have research/PIs that fit my interests/needs). 

So far, I feel like I'm doing everything right. Good GPA, internships, research during the school year with a research group on my school's campus, extracurriculars, working on a publication, etc. But it just feels like I'm going to spend the next couple of years with extreme tunnel vision and not actually enjoy college as much as I could. I'm not miserable (I'm still having a decent time), but there is an ever-lingering stress that has formed over the last few months, and I'm not sure when (or if) it's going to go away.

Any advice on how to cope with this would be appreciated.",3,1,2.8210827513618604,GradSchool
"I'm writing a research paper about ""Modern Experimental Design"" and I need your help.","Hey everyone. Specifically, I'm wondering the difference between Modern E.D. and E.D. . As i searched all over the academic search engines i found nearly nothing. I need your help asap. Thanks.",1,0,2.582436918028527,GradSchool
"Admitted a defeat, faced it head on, now I'm happy.","I'm a first year in my grad program, and I came in wide eyed and ready. I still feel that way mostly. I signed up for well above a full course load (I'm on an RA and my project isn't fully defined yet so not much research to be done just yet) and my advisor was like ""Are you sure? That's a whole lot."" I basically said ""I won't know what the limit is until I reach it."" Then a few days ago in lecture, we got into such complex math that was supposedly foundational to the science and I was overcome with dread, since this was supposed to be my ""bottom priority"" class. After a little soul searching, I admitted defeat, and since we're past the withdraw date, I thought I was stuck in there and I was a little sad. But luckily my instructor is letting me switch it to an ""audit"" type grade, and so it'll be on my transcript, I'll get the info I can glean, without having to worry about a terrible grade or complete understanding (still have to do all the work though). It was the right choice and I'm stoked I get to have the best of both worlds. Still, it is difficult to admit when you can't do it all in academia. But I'm learning, as so many people have told me, grad school is when your ""exceptional talent"" becomes the norm, and you don't get a cookie for every little success. Stay strong folks!",12,210,4.081846640250749,GradSchool
MBA Research/Internships,I'm currently a sophomore in my undergrad and I am planning on applying for grad schools for an MBA. I am really foreign to this process. I know internships and research play a big role in applying. What are some outstanding internships/research opportunities that I should be looking to apply to? I don't even know where to look for them.,1,0,3.0209554365470455,GradSchool
"Potentially moving far away from grad school, need some positivity!","Hi  reddit! 

I'm planning to move to Canada from Australia sometime next year, and boy am I scared, but also excited. I basically haven't moved out of my home at all here or been away from my family or friends for more than two weeks, so this is a huge leap for me. But I feel that doing research at this particular uni is right for me, and I have to take this opportunity or I might not get an opportunity like this again. Seen a lot of shit recently online about how depressing grad-school can be and as someone with depression, I feel like moving  so far away from home could really exacerbate it. But I'm still trying to be really positive about it, because I think it'll be good for me, and I guess I'm just asking for some kind of re-assurance by people who have gone through this! 

Tl;dr - I just want to know if anyone has had the experience of moving half way around the world for their grad school, and what the positives of their experience were, and good ways to cope with loneliness? I just kind of need re-assurance that it will get easier in the long run.",9,12,3.589497103213712,GradSchool
Advice for a new Bioengineering Msc student?,"To my surprise, I've been accepted in a Masters program for Biomedical Engineering starting in April.

I've always wanted to join a program like this but my undergrad marks were somewhat low (I'm not in the US but I found it's about a 3.0 GPA) because I had a hard time due to depression (I even had to take less subjects a year than the other students and had to repeat some of them), so my hopes weren't up, but I actually got in thanks to my work experience.

I really want to do well in this program, because I'd like to further continue studying and maybe applying to a PhD program in the future. Any advice?

Is there any way of redeeming my bad undergrad marks through my Msc program?

Thank you all for your time reading this!",2,1,3.164184603213712,GradSchool
Creating a new social life,"I'm a philosophy grad student in northern Illinois, which a small school in the middle of farmlands. I'm enjoying it thus far, but feel like my social life has taken a hit. I came from a large school in undergrad and was in a fraternity. I had many friends and went out all the time. I also learned how to talk, meaning guide conversations and break the ice with new individuals. I love that part of me because I see myself as a ppl's person, and I don't want to lose that. I'm given quite a bit of work each week, which I really don't mind, but I want my free time to be spent with ppl, not sitting inside watching movies. Idk, it's like I just forgot how I started in undergrad. I went from not knowing anyone there to knowing almost everyone. I could go out alone with confidence that I'd bump into someone I knew and had a night with them. Has anyone else felt like this in their grad program? The ppl in my cohort are cool, but a lot of them are introverts and don't like to go out often,so I'm really on my own trying to figure this out. Any advice would be appreciated!",7,8,3.641545714324823,GradSchool
I had the most abysmal lecture today and now I'm doubting being here,"I had a nightmare a few months ago about my new programme, that I was sitting in a lecture and couldn't understand a word of it, and today that was realised.

My supervisor told me to sign up for the General Relativity (GR) course because it'd be ""fun"", and because I did well in GR during my masters I figured it'd be a nice refresher, although I don't have a pure math background and the maths department here is notorious. Start of the class was okay, the lecturer said he was going to be pretty 'applied' with the maths, and then suggested some textbooks but said one particular book was only for idiots.

But then the lecturer started right away with manifolds, which I've never seen before, and I didn't understand any of it. I can't even read my notes because I literally don't know what the symbols mean. I don't know what a ""set"" is, or ""smooth"" (I know the applied math basics of these two, but the language was completely unrecognizable in this lecture, so I guess I don’t know the pure math meaning of those words), or ""diffeomorphism"". It may as well be written in Mandarin Chinese. Heaps of other students asked questions during class and I didn't understand what they were asking. 

I went up to the lecturer after class to ask him for some advice to get up to speed. He looked at me like I'm stupid and then suggested I read the book that he'd said was for idiots. There were other pure math students there (the people who'd asked questions and pointed out mistakes during the lecture) who kinda snickered at me when I asked. 

This class is supposed to be for masters students, i.e. *below my level*, **and** I've technically done it before, and I still suck at it so bad that I can't even begin to engage with the material. 

I really don't know what I'm doing here. I want to mention it to my supervisor and get his advice, but I haven't been here very long and I don't want to be a whiny baby or a hassle for people so early on.",43,55,4.141348955065564,GradSchool
Which branch of history should I pursue? Military History or Women's History? or it doesn't matter?,"Hello.

I am an undergrad in my last semester who is going to do my masters in January, hopefully. I want to get my masters in Military History. However, I got an idea about an academic history book, and I want to publish that book through an university press, for which you need a PHD. So now I want to get a PhD in history. However, the book that I want to write is not related to military history, but more related to women's history. So I want to know which PhD. should I pursue. Military History or Women's history?

&#x200B;

Thank you.",7,0,3.3465688624729713,GradSchool
Mom doesn't care about my accomplishments,"So I'm a second year Genetics PhD student. Im about to go to my first grad school conference and I've been asked to give a talk on a paper I'm about to publish. It's a huge honor and I'm very excited to have my first talk so soon into my PhD, as well as to have a publication underway.  

So I called my mom and decided to tell her. We have a rocky relationship, but this is a big deal so I thought it would be nice to talk about. This was the conversation:

Me: Im giving a talk at the craniofacial genetics international meeting next week

Mom: about what?

Me: that paper I'm going to publish

Mom: why are you talking about craniofacial stuff?

Me: that's what my lab studies.... remember?

Mom: oh.... well anyways...

She proceeded to tell me about some party she went to.  I've been in this lab for a while now and I've talked about my research several times. She just doesn't listen or care. And that conversation just sucked.",18,16,3.989335066176675,GradSchool
I’m applying to grad school for Fall 2020 and I’ve been out of college for 3 years. Who should I ask for letters of recommendation?,I wasn’t planning on going to grad school while I was in undergrad so I didn’t really bother making connections with any of my professors. Can I still ask ones I had a few classes with for letters of recommendation even if they might not remember me? Also is it unprofessional to ask my current boss for a letter of recommendation if the degree I’m seeking has nothing to do with my current position and will ultimately help me get a new job? I’m not sure exactly what to do so any help is appreciated! Thanks :),29,74,4.420874418028527,GradSchool
About to Graduate but Haven’t Found Your Path Yet? Don’t Worry.,"Of course, you don’t know what you want to do — you haven’t even lived yet!

Don’t jump on the first boat that somebody puts in front of you.

Nothing will ruin your 20s and 30s more than thinking constantly you should have everything together.

Life is about exploration.

And if you are 20 something, you just started to live.

Most likely you have another 60! or 70! years of execution ahead of you. 

[https://medium.com/@michael.burkhardt/about-to-graduate-but-havent-found-your-path-yet-don-t-worry-ce225df56ed2](https://medium.com/@michael.burkhardt/about-to-graduate-but-havent-found-your-path-yet-don-t-worry-ce225df56ed2)",2,7,3.965897566176675,GradSchool
Is it bad to submit a literature review as a writing sample for a PhD program?,"I have a literature review that I believe is strong, and I’m wondering if it would be better to submit that or a portion of my thesis. My thesis is past the page limit obviously, so it’d only be a portion. I’m not sure which is a stronger option.",12,5,3.8537563624729714,GradSchool
Explaining this world to your family,"I know I’m not the first one to post this but I just need somewhere to vent about this. 
My parents have never really understood this PhD thing. Over the years I’ve learned to ignore their condescension and their “what do you mean you’re not finished yet, what are you going to do?” Comments. I’ve explained how a STEM PhD works to them until I’m blue in the face and they just still don’t understand it. 

This also comes with some background of a very typical emotional manipulation on their part, always expecting me to be the best and if I did anything less than what they expected as perfection, they let me know what a disappointment I was. 
It wasn’t malicious, it was just that they learned early on I could be manipulated emotionally, and my sibling couldn’t care less. So it was all focused on me. As you can imagine, this upbringing manifested some serious perfectionism in my adult life, and people pleasing. I’ve worked hard to not need constant positive affirmation to feel successful (grad school is NOT the place for that!).

Anyway, I’ve just defended (yay!) and even though I’m way ahead of the average completion time for my program, my parents are still insistent I wasn’t fast enough and give me a hard time about looking for postdocs and career choices. I’m a very happily married adult, I’ve been independent from them for years and have tried to put an emotional distance between myself and them for these reasons, but my goodness. Are they ever going to realize that I’m capable of making these decisions for my life in a field they know nothing about? Can they just shut it and be happy for me for once?

Like I said, I’ve learned to shut a lot of it out. But I was hoping for a bit more support and less condescension once I finished my freaking PhD. 

Vent over, and I’m moving on. Thanks for reading :)",14,36,4.346985529139638,GradSchool
Getting started on the statement of purpose,"I thought I’d have more time to go over this essay but one of the professors who has offered to recommend me wants to see a draft of it next week. I’ve been writing essays for the last five years, and for some reason this small little essay (500 words) seems to be a daunting task. How did you guys get it done and did you feel confident about it? How much does the SOP matter to graduate admissions? I don’t have experience in my field, except for academic so do I just write about projects and presentations done in class? This is for a psychology MS program. Any advice? Thank you everyone.",3,1,3.754971640250749,GradSchool
Which grad program should I choose and where can I find a professional to answer my question?,"Hi guys! I have a BS degree in political science from an American university. I am applying grad school the coming fall. One thing has been bothering me is choosing the right program. I have a strong interest and background in Chinese politics. Should I go for Political Science again or aim for international relations?
For the foreseeable future I am not going to get a PhD degree. I really want to work for those three letters agencies after graduating , CIA,etc. but I am still struggling with getting a green card, which means public sector jobs are off limits for me now. Which program is better for me in terms of getting me employed before I can try in the CIA.",2,0,3.6019045106211194,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Have a tear-free week?

* Do well on phone interviews?

* Survive your first time teaching?

* Attend GHC?

* Give an excellent presentation to people who fund your work?

* Earn As on your first round of exams?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",47,6,4.273710066176675,GradSchool
"I have great GRE scores and a very strong undergraduate GPA, but very little research experience. Some graduate schools in my field say strong applicants will be admitted directly into a PhD program, but...","I am very interested in a career in research, and I have been following a lot of posts under ""Dr. Doctorate"" on Quora, which has also answered a lot of my questions about getting a PhD and grad school in general. 

I'll be applying to a few schools this year for Fall 2020 admission and I have most of the things I need to apply ready, including a great GPA and 90th percentile GRE scores in both Verbal and Quantitative. Now I've been trying to study the publications of some professors whose research topics sound exciting and interesting to me, but I feel like I've hit a wall. In a lot of them I get a vague sense of what's going on, but otherwise I'm completely lost. Confused. I have no idea what the hell they're talking about. I've read that ""research"" graduate degrees (MS and PhD as opposed to M.Eng.) place more emphasis on research itself and much less on coursework and studying. So I'm starting to wonder if I'm really ready. Some of the schools I wish to apply to state that ""strong"" applicants will be admitted directly into the PhD program (where, from what I've read online, even less emphasis is put on coursework) and I'm wondering how I'm going to be able to learn everything I need to so I can even come up with a good dissertation topic. I've read the horror stories about people dragging their PhD's on for as long as 8 years and I don't want to end up like that.

&#x200B;

Do I have wrong information about what graduate school entails or is my inability to understand the content of these publications and indicator that I need more time to ""prepare"" before applying?

Edit: my field is Civil Engineering, I want a graduate degree in Geotechnical Engineering, a subdivision of Civil Engineering, with research in Computational Mechanics",10,2,4.082263306917415,GradSchool
VERY overwhelmed. Applying to grad school after graduating undergrad 5 years ago. HELP PLEASE!,"
Hello!

I apologize if this comes off scatter brained, I will try to make bullet points to get everything across in a more concise fashion. So I graduated with a BS in Psychology in 2014. Since then I haven’t really done anything with it, at all. I got my CNA which is also in the helping relations but did not pursue a job with that. I’ve been bartending mostly. Honestly the debt was just overwhelming and I wasn’t sure exactly what career I wanted at the time, and so I didn’t want to get into more debt to not know what I’m ultimately trying to do as a career. Alas, it’s been five years... life got in the way. But things have calmed down and I’ve thought long and hard about pursuing a MS in counseling Psychology with hopes of becoming an LCPC.. SO Here are my issues:

I have zero relevant recommendations for letters. I emailed some professors from five years ago and told them my name and what classes I took with them but they probably won’t remember me. I also included that I’d like to meet up with them to help jog their memory, and also volunteered to assist in any way with any research they may be working on so that their recommendations could be more than generic.. is there anything else I can do?? Are non relevant work coworkers and supervisors something worth including?

Being as I have no relevant work experience, how in the hell do I create a CV or resume?? I can include my undergrad, my cna class, and that’s pretty much it...

I’m kind of feeling like I missed the boat here and graduate school is just too far out of reach, and I waited too long. I’m kind of heart broken because now I finally know what I want to do and am willing to work for it, but these technicalities are such an issue.

Any advice would be greatly appreciated.

Thank you!",5,0,3.9830387698803786,GradSchool
My abstract was accepted for poster presentation!,"This is my third one to date. Really quite excited. It's entitled:

""Treatment and Rehabilitation Challenges in a Person with Anterograde Amnesia Following TBI""

Woo!",19,280,5.311719325435934,GradSchool
Advice/suggestions preparing for graduate study.,I will be starting my doctoral school in Astronomy coming January. I have a few months to kill/prepare for the new journey. Just need some advice or suggestions to keep in mind before starting. Sorry if my post does not belong here. Any general pointers or links to previous posts are also welcome. There have been many suggestions on how to get into doctoral schools but I see not much help once you get into them. I thought this post would help me and others in the same boat as well. Thank you folks.,2,1,4.040376732843342,GradSchool
Help with a figure?,"If I don't understand a figure, is it a good idea to email the authors asking for clarification?

I presented a paper I read and did pretty well, but a post-doc had a question about a graph that I couldn't answer, and my PI (who had the same question) said I could follow up with them in a few days after I've looked at it again. I've looked at it over and over again now and I still don't quite understand, it's an issue with wording on a graph. Can I email the authors for a direct-from-the-source response? Or is that not a great idea? I know I could ask other students but idk if it would be better to ask the people actually made the graph. 

Sorry this might sound like a dumb question, but I'm a first year PhD student so everything is brand new to me!",1,3,4.327668399510008,GradSchool
defended 4 months ago... still waiting on data to complete thesis,"Ok. here's the situation: 

I defended my masters thesis about 4 months ago and passed conditionally with some revisions... part of which is dependent on the creation and application of a correction factor for my data that is completely out of my hands (to be developed by one of my committee members). And I still don't have that correction factor. I've heard a few times from said committee member during this time and they've said that they're ""working on it.""

I am feeling super frustrated because there's literally no way I could have done anything different and now my thesis has been delayed by (so far) 4 months and I still have no concrete answer as to a timeline or anything. This is also a subject that I don't have a ton of technical knowledge on the development of (my work is on the application side) so it's not like I could develop the correction factor by myself (besides which it would be outside the scope of my project). I do also have a second chapter of my thesis which is not dependent on this project that is pretty much finished and I think it could stand alone as a thesis. 

I just don't know what to do at this point. I really just want to be done with this thing and move on with my life. The longer this drags on, the more motivation I lose. I don't know if this sort of hold-up is common? Has anyone else experienced something like this? And if so, how did you resolve it? Or am I being unreasonably frustrated here? 

TLDR: defended thesis 4 months ago, passed conditionally on data that is out of my hands and I still don't have. am very frustrated.",2,2,4.346742473584082,GradSchool
"Advisor MIA, little to no faculty support. Looking for advice. What can I do to cover myself?","I'm a PhD student (turned MS, due to this situation) in my third year and my advisor called me last month to inform me that they're leaving the university. They did not offer to take me on as a student at their next position. They were fairly non-committal when answering my questions about whether or not they would be present at my thesis defense, or available to help me with my thesis research. We ended the call by setting a date to go over some data extraction the following week. When that date came around, they didn't show. They didn't respond to my messages. After a couple weeks, I contacted the department head and let them know. They acknowledged how ""challenging,"" this situation is and offered to serve as my interim advisor. 

Now the department head is not responding to my messages about meeting to review my IRB application (need their signature) and thesis proposal. To make things even more challenging, I am completing an internship in another state, so I can't bang on doors and demand attention. I'm hoping to graduate this spring, but things are looking more dire as my timeline gets shorter. Only one of my committee members has been helpful and communicative, and they have more students than anyone else on my committee.

I just have a bad feeling about this and don't want to be screwed over after all my hard work. Has anyone been in a similar situation? How did you handle it?",3,1,4.191256362472972,GradSchool
[Advice] Managing Expectations with Research?,"Hey all,

I'm doing some work for my first papers in graduate school (Master's Poli Sci program) and I'm wondering how you all conduct your research for short-medium length papers (7-20 pages). I'm putting together my sources and having a total heart attack because the suggested number of sources is 10-15 and each individual source is anywhere between 40 and 300 pages. 

For those of you more used to this sort of thing, is it generally the case that you read the entirety of a source every single time? I've had quite the time keeping up with the workload thus far and cannot imagine adding hundreds of pages of additional reading + the writing process into the mix. 

I don't mean to imply that I don't think it's worth it to read things in its entirety - just that I am not sure exactly how much time I should be spending on these parts of the writing process.

Thanks for the support!",5,1,4.208131362472971,GradSchool
Asking for advice for taking up a major,I'm a environment science student and I'm planning to join a grad school in 2020 taking up Atmospheric and marine science as major. But I'm not sure if me not having a physical background will affect my chances of getting accepted into a grad school. I have contacted couple of uni I'm interested in  but even they seem unsure.I would appreciate any kind of feedback or advice!,0,0,4.217321177287786,GradSchool
Was just asked to be on the admissions committee for my own department!,"The director said that my experience with science fiction and time spent with the campus (did both undergrad and now grad here) would make me good addition to the committee and helping determine applicants. 

How excited should I be for this? Should I be excited?",6,20,5.0089531217322305,GradSchool
How to connect with my mentor?,"I'm a new graduate student, and I recently met with a prof who's agreed to serve as somewhat of a mentor for me. She's not in any way connected to my lab/supervisor/project, I think this is more of a personal mentorship situation.

She was very kind and suggested that I stop by her office any time to chat, but I'm kind of awkward, so I don't really know how to do that. Does anyone have suggestions of things that I can talk to her about, or ask her about, or anything for me to say when I stop by? 

In addition, or maybe more importantly, it's coming up with the first initial ""reason"" to go by her office that I'm also struggling with. I feel like she'll think I'm dumb if I just go by to say hi... she's busy as well so I don't want her to think that I'm wasting her time. I feel like if I go over, I need to have a good opener.

I'm a little awkward and have always had trouble talking to my profs about personal things, but I'm really excited to have someone who's interested in taking me under their wing, and want this to go well. Thanks!",3,3,4.756256362472971,GradSchool
Ubiquitous Abuse,"Everyone in my cohort has a story about some sort of abuse by a faculty member. I, personally, have several. The administration refuses to hold faculty members accountable for any of this behavior. There is a mental health crisis in the grad school community largely due to this. I have seen a bunch of these stories on this subreddit. What can we do? Has anyone successfully taken any action? How? I don't want this kind if thing to keep happening to people.",30,22,5.22301562173223,GradSchool
I introduced one of my heroes today!,"My PI has his postdocs do the intros in his vaccines course- which is pretty famous- today I introduced Paul Offit, and then Paul Offit introduced Stanley Plotkin! 

Highlight of my career most likely!

PS, this is only need for immunology nerds but I had to post somewhere!",1,5,4.9404346032137125,GradSchool
SUCCESSFULLY DEFENDED MY MS THESIS !!!!,Going back to sleep.,17,615,6.061221640250749,GradSchool
I feel kind of dumb and inferior when applying to grad school,"I want to get a master's in science in computer science. I see the sort of research that the professors I'm interested in are doing and I feel like I don't know anything.

I don't know if this is normal, I know stuff but I'm not exactly a highly accomplished scientist.

I want to go to gradschool because I want to expand my knowledge, but sometimes I wonder if they're expecting a genius or something to show up.",6,2,4.774994788398898,GradSchool
Informational interview,"Hi everyone,

I'm doing an informational interview with one of my advisor's colleagues tomorrow. This individual does research in an industry setting. I've drafted some questions to ask such as why did you choose industry vs. academia? What does a typical day look like for you? Do you find there's room to learn new skills with in your job title? Do you spend more time at the bench or doing administrative work? What do you enjoy most and least about your job? Etc.

Any suggestions on important questions I should ask? I want to make the most out of this opportunity.

Thank you!",1,2,4.93877951062112,GradSchool
Should I get a PHD/PsyD,"I want to be a therapist, that's been my goal for years. I would also like to teach but always figured a community college would be a good fit. 

After applying to my dream school, psyd program that I could not  afford, I decided to get my masters. 
Now I am thinking that I would like to tech grad school, but still be a therapist. I am not sure if you can own and run a private practice (what I truly want to do) while also teaching?

I am not sure if I should stay in school for the doctorate or start working/building a case load.

I would love to hear advice or what did/didnt work for you 

Thank you",12,2,4.940758677287786,GradSchool
Just got accepted at KAUST for an internship (VSRP program) for 3 months!!,"I'm a little nervous about doing an internship literally at the other side of the world but at the same time I'm really excited about what's coming, the many nationalities and cultures that co-habit the campus, state-of-the-art facilities, etc. Any of you guys have been to KAUST as an intern or as a grad student?",2,3,5.06690451062112,GradSchool
How to deal with friends who don’t understand how busy you are?,"Hi everyone, I’m handing in my thesis at the beginning on December and because of that everything is a bit full on for me trying to balance  work and study. 

In the months leading up to my submission I know it’s going to be quite intense for me and I won’t have time to be as social. A few of my friends who aren’t postgrad and are working full time are getting annoyed at me for not replying to messages instantly or being a constant therapist to their issues (when they have no idea what I’m going through rn) 

How do you kind of tell people you are busy and under the pump if they haven’t experienced it before and don’t understand how hectic it is?",6,2,4.989311918028527,GradSchool
Which comes first: the figure or the text? (rant),"My PI and I are writing a review paper, and he has been nagging me to produce a figure, insisting that without a figure, we can't publish the review. I understand his point, but I told him that I think it's easier to think of a figure when we actually have the first draft. But he keeps on insisting that the figure is more important, and we can easily write the text when there's a figure. (BUT HOW CAN WE MAKE A FIGURE WHEN WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S IN THE TEXT???)

I've started writing on my own, just so I have something to work with and finally make a figure, but he nags about the figure every single freaking day. A postdoc in our lab also asked me whether I already made a figure or not without asking about the text. Now I'm wondering if my way (text before figure) is the strange one? Or is it just my lab that has strange writing techniques????",5,1,4.84983275136186,GradSchool
Posting Papers online?,"Hello! This is my first post here. Hopefully, I'm not breaking any rules.  
I am so excited I found this group, as I am the only grad student in my department. It's rather lonely. I have no one except my professors to bounce ideas off of. They are great, but I'd like to have a community of grad students to talk to.   
I am doing my MA in History (focus in late Roman Republic/early Empire), planning to start my thesis next summer. I have written several research papers over the course of my classwork, and I'm wondering if anyone else has a blog or a webpage where they post papers they write? I'd like to be able to send a link to any friends or family who ask to read them, rather than having to attach multiple large files to emails every time someone asks. Does anyone else blog about grad school?   
Not that I think my work is all that and a bag of chips, but I'm a little concerned about someone stealing my papers. Is this a concern? Am I being silly? I'd love for other people to read my stuff, but I worry about putting things on the internet like that. Is it considered unprofessional?   
Any advice is appreciated! I'm so glad I found this community!",4,9,5.342726269880378,GradSchool
NSF GRFP and pending publications,"Hi all!

I’m applying to nsf GRFP (like everyone else) as a PhD student (option 3). I finished my masters as part of a dual bs/ms program and applied last year. One of the comments my reviewers all had was that I didn’t have publications as a masters student. Well, by the end of the school year I published my first conference paper, but I didn’t include it as pending in my application. 

This year I’m submitting three conference papers around the same time as the application is due, and I was wondering if I should include that in my essays? It’s work I’ve done and actual progress I’ve made, but I don’t want the whole waiting for the conference game to be what hurts me in the end. All I’d say is “this work has been submitted to xxx conference 2020”.",3,1,4.924635992102601,GradSchool
How is life and study pressure like in grad school?,"I heard people say in grad school, you will have lots of time to do interns, TA or RA staff; but I also heard people say you barely get enough sleep, which one is true?
I will be majoring in international relations or political science,btw.",6,4,5.294624418028527,GradSchool
Whats the best way of finding a professor who is researching or interested in the same topic you are?,,3,1,4.954624418028527,GradSchool
How do you handle terrible undergrads?,"I’ve been losing some sleep over this. I teach a freshmen chemistry lab. This is my first real teaching position. I’ve had a ton of experience being in charge of post-lecture breakout sessions or assisting labs, so I thought I’d enjoy lecturing, and though I do enjoy it, I’m beginning to dislike freshmen.

Now of course, most of the students are doing just fine, some are even killing so hard that I blush just thinking about it. The problem is that there are some real incompetent students who will forget my instructions no matter how many times I repeat them or write them down. These are the same sorta students that I fear will be safety hazards to others in future labs. The sorta students that fail a quiz that I purposefully made easy. They bring the class down, and it’s making me worried.

I feel like I need to do something about it. I want to just privately sit each one of them down and have a talk. They should either drop the class before it’s too late, or get their act together. Or should I just leave them be?

What do you guys think? If I were to give them the talk, how could I navigate it?",10,17,5.669890621732231,GradSchool
Latin Squares,"Ya'll know a source/material that explains Latin squares in ANOVA nicely?

I'm already using Montgomery 8th Edition.",2,2,5.254092010621119,GradSchool
Cite.com Error Messages?,"Hey everyone,

I've been using Cite.com as my preferred method because I HAAAAAAAAAATE formatting Chicago. It's never given me any issues except the last week or so. It gives me a 403 message now if I try to log in/create a new account/use the ""contact us"" box.

I've used Chrome, Firefox, my phone, everything I can think of. Of course, I'm an idiot and don't download my biblio as I add things. Has anyone else had this issue? I REALLY don't want to have to create everything from scratch and try to remember what my footnotes mean. 

I know I can use the cite-as-you-write in Word/Endnote/Mendeley but, to be honest, I really prefer the site versus anything else. 

Anyone have any input?

Thanks so much!",0,1,5.124798029139638,GradSchool
Weak research questions when approaching professors for PhD programs,"I'm trying to focus in on a topic I'm interested in but not plugged into enough to come up with any questions that will ""wow"" potential professors I want to work with. I have some decent research topics that show I've done a fair amount of reading, but certainly not anything I'd want to commit to. 

Should I send in introductory emails to professors with sub-par questions, or really try to live and breathe these journal articles until I've got something good to approach professors with?",6,10,5.612760992102601,GradSchool
Apply now or wait?,"Hi I was hoping someone could help me with this unique situation. 

I am in my senior year. I’m getting my B.S in economics on May 15th. The application deadline for the grad school I wanna goto is June 1st. 

One of the requirements is I have all b’s in economics courses. I have one c+ that I’m retaking next semester (I would have done it this semester but it wasn’t available).

Can I apply and tell them I’m retaking the class next semester, or wait until I graduate to apply?

GPA 3.56
I have 2 good recommendations from the chair of the economics department and her associate. And 2 from my bosses. 
Have not taken GRE yet but will do so by December.

Any advice is appreciated",1,2,5.344844325435934,GradSchool
"""Can we have a meeting"" emails are the ""please come to the principal's office"" intercom announcements of grad school",,1,36,6.029485529139638,GradSchool
Modern Experimental Design,"Hello everyone. A newbie master's degree student here. I don't know if this sub is the right place for it but i need to ask it anyway. I have to write a paper about ""Modern Experimental Design"" and it's difference from Experimental Design. I searched google scholar to scopus to emerald about it and nothing came out. I wonder is there anyone here can able to help me in terms of useful articles about it or info's or anything? Thanks.",1,1,5.269659140250749,GradSchool
Relaxation tips while in the last push? I'm one stressed bean.,"Currently in the last push to get my masters. I am going part time to finish off one more class in the spring. I an applying to PhD programs, working, going to school, and trying to prep for my comps that I want to take in December. I'm well organized but I feel like I'm failing at everything and I just want things to work out.

Oh- I'm also taking the GRE on the 30th of this month. I'm a stressed bean. Any good relaxation tips beyond working out? I do that already. 

Thanks everyone. (Ps I'm a medieval historian)",6,2,5.443258677287786,GradSchool
Stanford Masters Degree in Computer Science (MSCS) Application Question - Financial Aid question,"Hey everyone! I'm currently applying to Stanford's Masters in CS program. On the official Stanford webpage, they state: ""The Computer Science Department does not offer financial support for MS students"". However, on the same webpage, they also state that limited CA/RA resources (tuition + stipend funding) are sometimes available to Master's students once matriculated.

On the application website, it asks the following required question:

""Are you applying for financial aid such as fellowships or assistantships from Stanford University (e.g., Departmental funding)? - Yes/No""

I'm not sure which one to pick right now. The reason being that I think picking ""Yes"" will significantly hurt my chances in admissions, since Stanford clearly states not to expect funding for MS students. However, I'm planning on working hard if I get in and secure CA/RA funding. If I check ""No"" on the app, I'm worried that I will be barred from ever applying for CA/RA funding, since the department can point to my application and say ""look here, you clearly said you're not applying for financial aid"".

What do you think? Am I overthinking this? Will checking Yes have a detrimental impact on my application? Thanks  
\-A stressed out applicant",0,0,5.341534140250749,GradSchool
How did y'all learn stats? Looking for any useful textbooks or resources.,"I've taken a few stats classes in undergrad but they were my worst grads in school. I know at lot of people have a learn it as you need mentality for stats but I would really love to find a source that explains the math as well as the reasoning behind it. I've learned the math before but never the reasoning and I think that's the reason I haven't been able to retain it. Also the two stats profs ive had we're literaly less interesting then wet paint so I don't think that help either. Anywho, I know stats is super useful if you can learn it in biology so I really want to at least get a better grip on the basics. Thanks.",16,31,6.142367473584083,GradSchool
Blog during phd?,"Hi all! Thanks again for an awesome community!

I have a small dilemma, in which you might be able to give me some insight.

I have a webpage, a personal blog where I like to ""collect"" ideas, write blog posts for friends for discussions, and recommend books etc. I like to think of myself, a bit pretentiously, as a ""renaissance man"" (apologizing for the expression lol) because I'm deeply interested in a vast span of subjects, from mathematics, economics, finance, to philosophy and psychology. I'm also passionate about ""open source"", ""free software"", libertarianism, decentralization and enjoy reading books in the genre of anarcho capitalism (not that I believe that it's practically feasible).

I'm doing my PhD in financial economics, and I feel that the field is quite conservative. When I talk to people about philosophy they frown and tell me to keep away. I'm a bit afraid of the following things,  


* That people will find it unprofessional / silly.
* That my blog will prohibit me from getting work in the future.
* That the things I write today will be connected with me forever, poeple change all the time, and I change views weekly.

&#x200B;

I'm trying not to write things that are too controversial or anything like that, but I'm still abit worried about getting doxxed.

&#x200B;

What do you think? Thanks a lot! :)",5,2,5.633814232843341,GradSchool
How to stay focused during a 3 hour lecture?,"All my classes this year are 3 hours long, either in the morning or night and sometimes multiple classes in one day.

The profs give us a short break in between but once the class hits the halfway mark I become totally disengaged and distracted. I end up thinking about a million other things and making lists/doodling/ staring into space. I’ve pretty much stopped bringing my laptop to class because I can’t take notes without browsing the web lol. I am usually pretty interested in the material, try my best to do the readings beforehand and I want to listen but I find myself zoning out every class!

Any tips on how to stay focused and attentive in class this long? I’ve started drinking coffee to keep me awake, now I just need to stop getting distracted!",4,3,5.789971640250749,GradSchool
Is it appropriate to text or message advisor on FB if he doesn't respond to emails?,"My advisor is in another country for the year. I have been e-mailing him the last couple weeks with no luck; he sent one e-mail to me but never responded to my own. I have a deadline for something coming up and need his letter of permission, but haven't heard back. I also have fellowship letters of recommendation coming up soon and am afraid of him not getting them in on time.

I do have him on fb though and also have his mobile, though I'm not 100% sure it will work in another country. Can I politely ask him to check his e-mails from me since I have a deadline nearing?

Am I overthinking this?",5,4,5.900168399510008,GradSchool
Do y’all ever feel super pretentious when talking about your research?,Or is that just me? I feel so insecure about coming off as too ambitious and pretentious that I end up not taking the leap of throwing ideas out there and making progress on my concepts and theory development. Is this a common feeling of feeling super pretentious?,36,221,6.831904510621119,GradSchool
"If you moved for grad school, how long did it take to make a few friends in your new city?","I've been here for over a month and have only gotten to know one person enough to do things outside of class with. And even then, we've only met up a couple times.  Is it weird that its' taking me so long?
Edited to add details.",8,6,6.094879047658157,GradSchool
Invitation to apply for a phD program - Is this common?,"Today I receive an email from USC molecular and computation biology dean, saying that the faculties 'were impressed by my academic accomplishments' and encouraged me to apply to their phD program. I am just wondering if graduate schools send out invitations like that regularly, and this is some form of advertising strategies and that they aren't really 'impressed with my accomplishments'. 

LOL now as I am typing this post i realized how naive I was to think that the graduate programs would actually invite people to apply because they are 'impressed' by them I felt great about myself seeing that email for a little bit lol.",3,2,5.943548029139638,GradSchool
Don’t want to bug my recommenders,"Hi All -

I’ve finally finished applying for graduate school - application, resume, transcript, personal statement, portfolio and everything else.

I need two letters of recommendation - one did it almost instantly after I asked and the other has yet to do it. I asked her 3 weeks ago and she confirmed via text and email that she received the link where she’s supposed to submit.

She was my professor in undergraduate, ran the department and I worked as her assistant - she has a lot of connections in our field. Due to all of that, I really want this recommendation to be from her, otherwise I would’ve asked someone else by now.

My question is, can I send her a reminder about the recommendation? I don’t want to seem impatient but I also don’t know how long you should typically wait. Please let me know your thoughts!",5,3,6.116429973584083,GradSchool
When should I go to grad school?,So I graduate from UNCW’s B.S. in Clinical Research program in May of 2020. I’m currently interning at a CRO and hope to get a job there when I graduate. I’m young and I know I want to eventually go to grad school but UNCW’s program requires two years of working experience. Can anyone give me advice on if I should apply now and get it over with before life takes off with marriage and children or should I wait and get the two years of experience? What do you guys think about tuition reimbursement? I’m really young (21) so I don’t know anything about benefits like that. I just feel lost. Any advice is welcome,0,1,5.889960066176675,GradSchool
Applying for PoliSci PhD Programs - but Black Spot in academic record?,"Hi all, I've seen a few posts along these lines in my searches and I hope I'm not breaking any rules by asking this question.

I'm being encouraged by faculty at my school to look into heading straight into a PhD from my Bachelor's. I'm equally terrified and excited at the prospect, and have dived deep into researching my next steps.

My record so far is pretty decent - I'll finish school with a 3.85+ GPA, some nice volunteer and public posts I can add to my resume, and I feel confident in my GRE scores (which I have not received yet). 

However, at the very beginning of my college career, I had a rough academic year/career change/nervous breakdown that resulted in my being dropped from a top 50 university. Despite my wishes to erase that year from history, I know I'll have to submit that transcript alongside my applications.

Frankly, how badly will this reflect if my record afterwards is otherwise spotless? And if this does tank my chances at getting into a recognized program, please offer any recommendations you have on mind.

Thanks in advance, everyone.",3,2,6.056719325435934,GradSchool
Currently studying MS Psychology (Human Development) but thinking about getting a Graduate Certificate in Autism and Behavioral Science. Any thoughts?,"Hey there everyone. I'm currently in a MS Psych program in the Human Development track here in the Philippines. I have accomplished 21 units out of 42 already.

However, I'm thinking of getting a student permit in Canada next year to get a Graduate Certificate in Autism and Behavioral Science so I could get a post grad work visa after and hopefully a working visa so I could permanently stay there. 

Would this be a good move? I mean after getting the grad certificate I'll start saving up to continue my Master's degree over there but in Clinical Psychology. Also, I'm considering another program, Addiction Studies. What would be a good option between the two grad certificate programs like employment wise? What would give me more employment options? 

Will appreciate anyone who'll send their honest thoughts. Thank you!",4,1,5.936233214324823,GradSchool
Will journal rejection damage reputation ?,"I recently got rejected from a top-rated journal. The result is a dismal 2-1 (2 decline 1 accept) so the editor took the simple decision of siding with the majority. Most of the comments are cordial and constructive though some of which may not be accurate due to potential mis-interpretation of my intent. 

This is my first rejection though the tone of decline is generally soft from reading the comments. The reviewers really focused on what can be improved and what else can be done instead of blatant discrediting the work.  My field is fairly niche so my guess is that every body knows every body. I wonder if the rejection will damage my or PI's reputation ..... i know it's a bit odd but it is the number one thing i am concerned about.....",5,2,6.143744788398896,GradSchool
Close to tears?,"I am immensely proud of my lab- I am proud of my lab mates, I am proud of the professors whose lab I work for. I am thankful for the possibility to work within this lab- but I feel like such a f\*ckup! 

I've been troubleshooting PCR products since day one, nothing has come out right! I have no bands in my controls! The controls MUST have bands. I have more than 30 pages of just troubleshooting and I just, I just don't know what else I can be doing. Like I'm so close to tears and I've been staying late in the lab since 10 or 11 at night just to come back at like 10 am and just pray. I'm so close to crying.",6,2,6.170920714324824,GradSchool
"Farewell, asterisk!","Successfully defended my PhD, and that asterisk is gone!!!!",15,248,7.2649369180285275,GradSchool
"People who got into nationally ranked grad school computer science programs, what were your stats?","By stats I mean GPA, accomplishments, GRE, etc.

I would super appreciate any info/tips too. Thank you so much.",1,0,5.725723955065564,GradSchool
Asking for advice - should I do a phd ?,"I'm currently at a crossroad.

I completed my masters degree while working as a full time teacher in college. My masters is in teaching sciences even so I'm a physicist. 

My director is retiring this winter. During the last year, he told me many time I had what it takes to go far in the research field. I was flattered, but thought he was saying that just to be encouraging. He told me that I was onto something that could lead to a really interesting PHD. My subject is so new that he thinks I could be a pionneer and a true reference for years to come.

I like this idea. I like my subject and I would like to discover more about it. Being an ambitious person, I like the idea of being a ''pionneer'' but it may just been a gimmick my supervisor told me to enroll me somewhere else.

Now, I can't quit my job for the PHD. My SO and I have to pay for the house and it would not be possible to work on my PHD for free. If I want to pursue, it would be part time, as I did for my masters. I don't know how big the work load is for a PHD compared to a masters on the same subject. 

All I know is that it would mean a lot of work on the weekends and all my summers for the next 3 to 5 years (or more?). I was kinda happy with the idea to be done with that after my masters. I felt I havn't been able to have some peace of mind for a while. 

I feel I don't have enough info to make a decision and I'm looking for some input from outside my own circles. 


Additionnal info : I'm a woman, fencesitter leaning toward childfree. I first started my masters to be better at teaching and to get a raise at my job. I just turned 30.",6,1,6.039659140250748,GradSchool
Soon-to-be PhD dropout wondering if he should get his masters with or without a thesis,"I've already made plans to leave my PhD program in December after a year of research. My advisor has encouraged me to pursue a masters thesis, which she thinks will benefit my career later on. However, I'd have to work on this thesis remotely, I have no interest in returning to academia in the near future, and I'm not motivated by this area of research (part of the reason why I'm leaving in the first place). Also, prior to the PhD program, I had worked for three years in industry as an Engineer I.   


I'd appreciate some objective opinions y'all have about whether or not I should pursue a thesis. Why, or why would you not, pursue a thesis in these circumstances? Anybody here have a similar experience?",5,3,6.34207812173223,GradSchool
I feel like the multi-tasking is the worst part of grad school.,"Like trying to balance courses and TAing and research. And especially within research, there can be so much going when you're trying to finish writing up one experiment and starting data collection on another at the same time. And also the the little extra things like writing grant applications or preparing posters/slides for conferences. Like I feel like I wouldn't be feeling so stressed if I could just focus on one thing at a time. 

 I feel like my work in all areas is suffering because I'm stretched too thin. Like for example, this past week I had an exam to study for and a research report to submit to my advisor. And I feel like I did poorly on the exam and I know that report draft was garbage because there literally just was not time to give both things the attention they deserved. 

Anybody have any good advice for managing this?",39,236,7.377876732843342,GradSchool
Any counseling students or faculty who use LiveText? Am I missing something? There doesn't seem to be much reason to use it.,"My university uses both Canvas and LiveText for assignments. All assignments are turned in to Canvas and only some are turned in to LiveText. 

One of my department chairs said they just started using LiveText for CACREP accreditation assignments because of the TurnItIn integration it has, but our Canvas package has that same integration and is easier to use, for both faculty and students. 

LiveText is hot garbage and might be one of the most user unfriendly programs I've ever encountered.",2,2,6.306592010621118,GradSchool
Use of academic title in emails,"Generally, the first email that I send to a lecturer starts with ""Dear Professor A"" or ""Dear Dr. A"". Usually, lecturers answer in a formal way, so I used to keep it that way.

However, I had an answer today from a professor that started with my first name and he signed with his first name.
 
I read somewhere that people's signature usually reflects how they want to be called - e.g. if you sign first name + last name it is isially formal whereas if you sign with your firts name it is less. 

Just so you have more context, I asked that professor to be my mentor, and he agreed - where I am studying, it means that I will probably have to meet him once or twice throughout my master, but nothing more. Also, I never met him irl.

So, how do you think I should answer? Keep it very formal with ""Dear Professor A"" or something else? 

And more generally, what is your use of academic titles and how do you like that people use them? 

I personnaly would not care at all, but it is easier to say when you haven't any.

Edit: Just wonderign, is there something intermediate between ""Dear professor + surname"" and just the "" Dear first name""?",21,2,6.3109554365470455,GradSchool
How do you overcome the feeling of not feeling good/smart enough?,"Hi all a little background, I’m finishing up my bachelors in math this December. I’ll be in an MS in Applied Math program starting in the spring. Lately as I’ve been finishing up my upper division courses I feel like I’m not smart enough to continue on. I still really enjoy what I do and I enjoy everything I’m learning. I don’t know if it’s normal to have this sinking feeling of not feeling good enough but if you’ve felt this way how did you overcome it?",9,21,6.863791084695193,GradSchool
Help with Mendeley desktop sync for mac,"Hey folks! Currently having a hard time getting my desktop Mendeley to sync with my online library. I have tried signing in and out of the desktop app but it does nothing! It isn't a one time issue either, it has literally never synced which is very frustrating!

&#x200B;

Any help would be much appreciated :D",0,1,6.274763306917416,GradSchool
Worthwhile to negotiate graduate stipend?,"I'm currently a part time graduate student working full time with an engineering job, and I'm debating going full time for a PhD for various reasons. One of my professors offered me a research position out of the blue over the summer, and I've sat on the offer and am thinking about taking that for the spring semester. However, the stipend offer is a little bit below my expenses, so I'd want to negotiate it up to cover my expenses. Do you think it's even worthwhile to try that?

For reference, I've taken 5 graduate courses so far part-time and have 2 years of work experience in essentially the same field to what this professor does research in. I think a reason the professor offered this is because I have experience with a modeling software that he's implementing into his program. My logic is that since I have 5 courses done and have 2 years of work experience, I'm more like a 2nd year doctoral student than a 1st year doctoral student. I'm just not sure if that logic actually makes sense here.",7,1,6.399311918028527,GradSchool
Grad School Was A Huge Mistake,"I really don't know where else to say this. I wouldn't want anyone in my department to know because I am sure they would tell my advisor.

I am a Master's student and it is the biggest mistake I've made in my academic career. I feel betrayed by my department, and to a lesser extent my advisor. 

I am in an impossible position. I was accepted into a program a bit outside my expertise. I knew I would have to learn a very important technical skill to succeed, so I registered for a lower level class in it. I am one of two grad students in it. It cannot count towards my grad credits or program of study.

I took it as a lower level class (as opposed to a higher level independent study that would have counted) to avoid an extremely challenging project I simply do not have the background for. 

Well, the prof knows I am transitioning into the program from a slightly different field and today I was told I needed to do the project anyway. It's a huge part of my grade and I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing. The reason was essentially ""because you're a grad student you should do it anyway"".

I talked to the dept chair and was basically told it's out of his hands. I already did poorly on the first lab exam and I am about to get fucked on something worth even more of my grade. 

I am also carrying my group project because it's a bunch of undergrads who refuse to work. They shoved the entire thing on me.

I'm in another class I regret being in because my advisor asked me to take it. It's a very high level class requiring advanced technical knowledge. I don't have the background to be in it either and it's caused me as much stress as the other technical class.

There's next to no support system in the department and I can tell my mental health is in freefall.

I'm sorry if this isn't an appropriate post. I felt like I needed a safe space to vent and get some other perspectives.",6,5,6.853652195806305,GradSchool
How high should I keep my GPA for top engineering PhD programs?,"I'm currently a junior and I'm aiming for the likes of MIT/Caltech/Stanford/Berkeley. I'm an undergrad at one of these institutions, if that makes a difference.

This semester I sort of got myself into trouble taking elective classes that I wasn't prepared for (one of them is a math upper division weeder and the other one is a graduate class in my intended field of research).

I'm currently sitting at a 3.91, but I think I'll struggle to even pull a 3.5 this semester because of these two classes. The drop deadline has passed, and I can't take these classes pass/fail, so I was thinking of just gritting my teeth and grinding to get As at the expense of everything else I'm doing.

However, my research advisor told me that as long as I keep my STEM GPA above a 3.7, even the most picky faculty at these schools won't care, because my role is to do research and a 3.7 tells them that I won't have trouble passing quals/grad classes, which is sufficient. It's much more important to continue to do good research.

However, I have somewhat of a hard time buying this, because plenty of people have good GPAs and good research experiences, so why would people with a 3.8 and good research be accepted when you can find tons of people in the high 3.9's with good research?

Does anyone care to comment, maybe on the admissions process as a whole?",10,5,6.7889878439544535,GradSchool
Doctorate in Applied Mathematics in United States Graduate schools,"Hello,

I intend to apply for a graduate program (fall 2020) in mathematics. I am currently pursuing my [M.Sc](https://M.Sc). from Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar( India). I had done a three months research internship at the University of Saskatchewan. My research interest is in Partial Differential Equations and Probability Theory. I am appearing for the GRE General Test in the first week of November. Due to some financial crunches, I wasn't able to apply for Subject GRE. I understand it is kind of weird but please try to understand my situation. It will be a great help if someone can suggest to me some good grad schools that take students without subject GRE. It will be a great help to me.",2,0,6.329543399510008,GradSchool
Grad school application help," I want to apply for grad school but I'm running into a big problem.

I want to apply to CS or software engineering masters.

I have a not so much relevant degree (MIS degree, 2 years of business classes and 1 year of IT classes).with a good GPA: Around 3.90/4.3

I also did CS undergrad studies before. (studied for 1.5 years before leaving) . I had horrible grades, failed multiple classes etc.And with all the classes they, ended up with a 1 year degree with like 2.3 GPA (might actually be lower than that)

So in my masters application should I even mention my CS degrees at all?

Long story short:The classes are very relevant since they are in CS, but the grades are horrible (2.3gpa). (excluding the failed classes that I did to get there)

I have non-relevant degree (MIS) with a good gpa (3.9gpa)

Should I only mention the MIS degree? or should I also mention the CS one? Really confused on what to do",4,0,6.3350063624729716,GradSchool
Are there options to “catch up” on prerequisite courses needed for a current 1st year PhD student?,"I’m writing this post in respect to my SO who is currently in their first semester of a PhD program in Finance. 

My SO was accepted into the program with the understanding that they did not have as robust of a mathematical background, specifically in advanced calculus. Upon starting the program, it became swiftly apparent that most of the courses build off of advanced calculus and therefore found themselves woefully incapable of doing most assignments. (I would argue this is an issue of undergraduate and MBA courses/programs in Finance being behind in being more quantitatively rigorous but that’s another discussion...)

My SO has talked to some professors and their advisor about how far behind they are in their calculus knowledge, and if they have any suggestions to help stay afloat. The advice hasn’t led to any real success so far. Some professors have downplayed SO’s concerns, with the advice that “all 1st years struggle” and “you’ll pick it up”. Another professor suggested that SO work with peers, but nobody has helped SO out despite a few requests for help on/working together assignments (which I totally get the peers not helping or collaborating on assignments, they have their own work to deal with and I am sure they don’t have the time/energy/desire to help out someone that is so far behind on math skill). SO’s advisor has pointed them to mental health services and urged them to see if they could stick it out. 

Understandably, my SO is incredibly frustrated and depressed about all of this. SO really doesn’t want to drop out of the program, and really loves many aspects of being in the program, but clearly doesn’t have the fundamentals to succeed at this time. My SO has even had a lot of good feedback and excitement from peers and professors about their ideas and critiques, and many think that SO would be successful when it comes to writing papers and a dissertation. So the issue isn’t really being a bad fit for a PhD program, just not prepared for one right now given their current knowledge base.

My question is, what are the options (if any) available to my SO to catch up? I have urged SO to try and be even more brutally honest with their advisor about their lack of calculus knowledge and it’s contribution to them falling behind/failure to complete assignments, as well as missing classes and making their depression so much worse. SO thinks it will expedite the process of getting kicked out of the program, to which I argued that they would get kicked out if they don’t say anything about it (and in a way that would be only more mentally debilitating). Can SO drop current courses and take the calculus courses they need to catch up? Are there tutors or other resources at the graduate school level that help with this situation? I get the impression from SO that their advisor and professors are fairly kind and want to see SO stay and succeed in the program, so at least that is positive....",9,6,6.966094325435934,GradSchool
"Should I continue on, withdraw, or take more time and switch advisors?","I'm at my limits with my current advisor (who is the head of our department.) Last semester I started burning out, but I was never comfortable expressing this. She will shame people in our lab for taking sick days and say things like ""I could have given \_\_\_\_ the job instead"" when she's unhappy with my work. Very little praise and lots of criticism to push us to do our best. But I don't work well like this. I saw a therapist and tried everything I could to change my own behavior to help the situation for months. And then I hit a wall of near total burnout (very little sleep and depressed) then came clean about wanting to withdraw. That's when she told me I was doing great and in the top 5% of students she's ever had after saying for months how I wasn't doing enough work. After seeing me cry, she offered me a ""break"" instead that ended up being doing 15hrs/week of work still including weekends for two weeks, on top of classes of course. Yep, still burnt out and unable to crank out work like I used to. So she gave me an ultimatum -- take time off now and sign a contract to make it up later, or withdraw completely. The downside of the break and return is that I have very little faith that I won't repeat this whole cycle again and feel even more frustrated when I return. There's a silent third option to take more time, find a new project, and an advisor who is more kind. I'm in my third semester of an MS program that will probably take me at least 5 semesters total, definitely more if I switch advisors and projects now.

Strangers on reddit...what would you do and why?",4,6,6.984242473584082,GradSchool
Should I get a job as an English professor?,"Hello Univ. of Reddit people,

I am very curious about your opinions on whether someone in my position can or should try to become a college professor.

My grades in English & humanities during high school were very high. My IQ is about 130. GPA approx. 3.8. (Numbers fudged a little so no one can recognize me. Sorry, but this is the Internet.) I studied to become a Catholic priest for a time and was able to get on the honor roll at a very large university but was unable to handle both the university and the seminary life at once, especially as I had come from a lifestyle where I did most of my high school work almost like it was still the 1940s, typewriter and inkwell and everything. (I am something of a history buff.)

Anyway, I ended up leaving & was diagnosed as high-functioning autistic. It doesn't hurt. I only am sensitive to lights & sounds--the light I can handle by wearing glasses for it, and the sounds by not listening to new music & driving a fairly quiet old car without a big muffler and whatnot. So nothing obtrusive. Autism doesn't impede me; I'm not disabled. 

And I have since held two jobs, moved to Music City to write books, finished my first novel, gotten in touch with a publisher, and continued living a life of adventure--but I want intellectual fulfillment and would like to teach people. Yes, I'm too idealistic. Yes, I want to be able to inspire people to see beautiful things. It is a leftover from the old Aristotelian philosophy I picked up in seminary (and before then--I used to read Aquinas' *Summa Theologica* when I was sixteen.) Yes, it sounds like Robin Williams' *Dead Poets Society* but I don't care; that's a great movie. 

So should I try for a Ph.D. or not?

  
Also, I am a normal man who wants to marry, and would like to be able to support a wife and children in reasonable comfort (as in, she shall want for nothing.) Will I be too busy with debt?

How do I even do this?

&#x200B;

Thanks.",15,0,6.155943862472971,GradSchool
How to find a grad school,"I'm just starting my search for graduate schools after taking the GRE, looking into Electrical/Systems Engineering with a focus in aerospace. I already work in an aerospace company on specialized test equipment, and have degrees in electrical and computer engineering and computer science. My practical skills are generally far above my peers and my co-workers comment on this. HOWEVER, the fun stops there. I am a crap test taker and for the life of me couldn't do better than a 155/158 verb/quant on the GRE after 6 months of fairly rigorous study. I just don't DO testing well. Looking into graduate schools, I don't know how to judge how ""good"" one is either, nor do I know exactly the focus I should be looking for to move forward as a systems engineer. Very top level, functional stuff like integration, harnessing, system schematic and diagramming + design, etc. Anyone have advice on where to look, or how to judge quality in schools for stuff like this? Thanks a ton!!!",2,0,6.704983214324823,GradSchool
Grad School PhD Prospects,"Hey everyone so mabye I'm just paranoid but im trying to gauge are my strength as a hopeful applicant and figure put my weaknesses. I intend to apply to a ph.d program after I graduate undergrad so I want to get your opinions on where it is I should improve to strengthen my application. I should note since I'm working on my studies and various extracurriculars alot of stuff is projecteted outcomes based on my current progress and with discussions with relevant people (professors, advisors, etc) so let's assume that all the stuff I'm working on will hopefully come to fruition.

I should mention that I am very interested in the origins of Life specifically I am very interested in deep time and the first cells.

.To start I would like to say that I messed up my sophomore year because I was very depressed, therefore my grades were really low, that is why I currently I am retaking a semester from my sophomore year in order to bring up my GPA. So assuming all goes well in the future let's assume I graduate with a 3.5-3.7

.I currently have about 4 years lab experience, I've worked over the summers and bits during the school year in labs on different projects since highschool.

.I'm currently working with a professor doing research, specifically I'm working under a master's student doing research in a related field, I should get my name on the master's students paper when it is published two months from now.

.I should also be able to present a portion of the paper (the part I'm working on) in a couple conferences if that helps.

.I'm also in talks with another professor about publishing some work I did a few years back. If all goes well I should have that done by the end of Junior year at the latest 
 
.I'm on my school student science council.

.My network consists of many different scientist (primarily withen biogeochem fields), which appear to be the most appropriate field for studying the origins of life (could be wrong).

These are the areas I'm currently working on. But I know that I could improve. What do you guys think I should do to further strengthen my resume and make me a competitive applicant?

Also two OPTIONAL (ANSWER NONE OF THEM OR ONE OF THEM OR BOTH, YOU READ THIS FAR SO DONT WORRY ABOUT IT) side questions, 

1) would one bad year ruin my chances of getting into really good programs (I'm kinda scared that one bad year will mess me up).

2) I really like Columbia as a school but it has recently come to my attention that grad school is more about the person and the research I want to do, so does anyone know any program that really would really focus on the origins of life. 

Finally and MOST IMPORTANTLY thank you. I know it was a wall of text but I really really appreciate you taking the time to read and it really means alot, even more so thank you if you reply and provide some advice. :D",1,0,6.788906825435935,GradSchool
Philosophy of social sciences 101 resource?,"Hello, first year PhD student here.

I am looking for an introductory book that could give me brief and understandable information on the main theories in social science research (post-structuralism, modernism, post-modernism, materialism, positivism, post-positivism, etc.). I'm coming across these words in my readings, and despite Googling, I still can't seem to wrap my head around those. And it annoys me that I don't understand the basics of these terms. I need to have like a 101 resource so I can just understand what the concept means in a nutshell.

any recommendations?",2,1,6.860874418028527,GradSchool
Potential Advisors," I’m in geology/earth sciences. I have begun to email potential advisors about if they’re taking students in the fall of 2020. Those of you in the sciences (or anyone who went about your admissions process this way) how many advisors actually emailed you back? And those advisors/professors that did, how much do you think emailing them before your application actually helped? ",6,1,6.869774880991489,GradSchool
Giving up a full time job for grad school? Am I making the worst decision?,"I just graduated from undergrad in May. I decided not to apply to grad school because I had a bad senior thesis experience (long story) and was just feeling burnt out by school in general. I decided to take a year to just work and apply to master’s programs for the year after.

The job I took is with a non profit similar to the field I want to pursue in graduate school. The pay and benefits are great and the work is really rewarding but I don’t feel that same spark I did when I was studying what I actually want to do for the rest of my life. Theoretically I could work here forever, advance further up, etc. The idea of not going to grad school in the fall stresses me out as much as the thought of leaving this incredible opportunity and all the incentives that go with it.

Am I an idiot? My partner has been incredibly supportive and tells me that whatever decision I make he’ll back me up on. I know my parents will flip out if I throw away a good paying job for the stress and financial insecurity of graduate school, and I’m also freaking about that. I just need an honest unbiased opinion on this.",5,1,6.879416084695193,GradSchool
Are there any resources to help afford purchasing a new laptop?,"I have a friend who's a fellow graduate student, and the computer he's had for over five years has stopped working completely, but he doesn't have the money to spend a few hundred on a new one.


Are there any places he could turn to for help? I know there are student discounts available with various tech businesses, but it's usually something like 10% off purchases. Are there any sort of grants for necessary technology (we're in a programming-heavy math program, so a working laptop is pretty much mandatory), or student- focused charities, or anything else that could help cover some of the costs of a new purchase? Or a place where he could maybe get some old used laptop? I'd give him my old one, but it's in such bad shape it can't even go online anymore. He's also not a U.S. citizen, so I don't know if that could help in some way.",4,2,7.161603584695193,GradSchool
Should I actually expect a strong letter of recommendation?,"What does it mean when a professor says they will write you a strong letter of recommendation, but that the recommendation will not be in the very strongest category? Can I trust that the ""strong"" letter of recommendation will actually be strong?

I'm not in dire need for a recommendation from this professor, since I do have other professors that could write me good recs, but I thought this professor would be able to write me an especially strong letter, seeing that I've taken the most courses with this professor, am a student in the department, and that this professor is a senior/respected figure in the field. Should I move on from this professor and request letters from my other options?",3,0,7.023941547658156,GradSchool
Dealing with breakup during PhD,Boyfriend of 4+ years broke off the relationship unexpectedly (to me). I am currently a phd student but precandidacy. I haven't been able to do any of my work since the break up on thurs . I do have a counseling appointment but not for a few days. I feel like I can't do anything. I can't eat. I can't get out of my bed. He is fine and going on with life. Does anyone have any advice to get the work done? Feeling overwhelmed and terrible.,97,243,8.274717010621119,GradSchool
Today feels like the world (or just my life) is crashing down.,"We are currently at week 7, while I feel as though I’m a bit ahead in terms of readings.. I am struggling in terms of deadlines, and just feeling overwhelmed.
This week: I have to conduct interviews for research - while this might sound like an easy task, it has all of these working parts that I just can’t seem to fit together. 
1. the site - they’re extremely slow. Just in terms of everything. I had been waiting on clearance for my consent forms, and it took 3 weeks to get the OK. That finally comes in, but now the consent forms need to be completed (I have been politely noting the urgency of this). Maybe next week I will have a few in hand. The consent forms were actually due last week - but obviously I have to rely on the administration to set it in motion.

2. in terms of the research - (ethnography of a student) I’m just at a loss. I can do the research, and observe and take notes etc.. but I am really struggling when it comes to creating a quality interview. I know this sounds completely ridiculous, however we were given about 2 weeks to prepare, and offered no guidance in this department. I also need to note that I’ve never done any kind of research that included interviews. This is a completely new thing for me. I feel like it’s a bit too early to be conducting interviews?? I really have no idea.


3. Two weeks from today I have 2 heavily weighted assignments due, on top of interviewing and observing twice a week.. on top of what I refer to as “busy work” on top of 5 hours of class.  

Part of me knows that I will get through it somehow, and that I’m almost halfway to Christmas break, but right now I am just so overwhelmed. At a point last semester, I felt as though as long as I stayed on top of things, I’d be fine. I went into this semester with the same attitude, but I feel like it’s more than that. I feel like the vagueness of this final paper is really burning me out.

I am a _huge_ advocate of asking questions to professors for clarification, and I am not shy.. but I feel like this particular interview situation and the attitude of my site is just adding unnecessary stress. 

I actually don’t think I have a concrete question for anyone, I really just needed to tell someone. I will also gladly accept any interview/research advice.",2,6,7.463744788398897,GradSchool
Learning,What percentage does everyone learn from their adviser vs other group members? What do you think is the best ?,3,4,7.394659140250749,GradSchool
I'm failing assignments so far in my first semester. I need advice on how to continue and finish.,"I'm an fellowship engineering master's student and am completely overwhelmed in my first semester. All of my classes are very dense in material and have overlapping deadlines for projects and homework. Three homework assignments (let's say they reasonably take 1.5 weeks to do each) are due this week. I spent a lot of that time working on one and studying with hopes of beginning on the other two.

For the one I attempted, I failed the first homework and I'm looking at a failing grade for this project due this week. I have not started the other two assignments and I'm looking to spend the majority of the next 72 hours trying to make as much progress as possible.

I'm first-gen college grad. Only person in my family to go to grad school or do anything in STEM. What do people do as grad students when their back is against the wall like this? Do I tell my professors that I have to sacrifice quality on one assignment to work on another? It's really hard to take advantage of the resources I need because there's some other obligation spreading me too thin. Do I just drink more coffee and do the best I can?

I can't jeopardize my fellowship now. There has to be a way to make it through. Anything - please!",2,1,7.1584901587692675,GradSchool
How do you get yourselves to write papers you don't care about?,"In undergrad you take plenty of courses that have nothing to do with nothing, but the workload is small/simple enough that doing the work is just a matter of powering through it and then forgetting about it. Grad school is all about tailoring your experiences to your interests, but sometimes that just....doesn't work.

I took a class because I thought it was going to relate to my research interests, but the more we get into it the more I'm struggling to remain interested, especially as my interests and my thesis have become more fleshed out. Now I'm having to write a final paper about Second Language Acquisition and some topic within it, and I can't find any motivation to research it, let alone write a whole, well thought out paper about it. 

How do you guys get yourselves to write about stuff you don't care about? Is it really the same as just powering through it, or is there some tricks you've picked up along the way?",6,1,7.1846128439544525,GradSchool
Thoughts? Advice Please! Supporting a Wife through her Doctoral Program..,"Hello everyone, I am seeking out some advice how I can support my wife through her doctoral program. She is currently in her third semester through her doctoral program and things haven’t been going well mentally for her. We moved 6 hours away from her family while we are near my family. Her major professor and pretty much the majority of the professors within the program had a mass exodus back in Spring. With a lot of her support system not nearby or have gone away, how else can I support her through her doctoral journey? She is in a strong cohort among other 6 doctoral scholars, but she’s losing her groove and I want to find a way to be a more supportive husband. 

How are you managing through your doctoral program? What other support systems do you seek out on campus if you find one? 

Thank you!",4,8,7.853791084695193,GradSchool
Can you do research experience in a major that is completely different to yours? Do graduate admissions care about this?,"I don't want to change my major because I like my major. But I like to delve into other subject of my interest. And I told myself If I'd ever wanted to study something in grad school, it'd be something different compared to my current major right now.",6,7,7.810932288398897,GradSchool
A year of work amounted to nothing,I’m starting my fourth year of my PhD and just found out the past year of experiments failed. My advisor says he is uncomfortable moving forward and is suggesting I take a master’s. I haven’t taken my prelims yet because I just found out I need another stats course so my committee decided I need to do that first. Prelims have to be taken a year before graduation so I’m looking at a long road ahead when I thought I was nearing the end. I don’t know what to do. My advisor tries to motivate me by being mean and it is wrecking me. I’m tempted to take the masters because this lab has been such a shit show and my advisor is cheap as fuck which I think is why my experiments have been failing. I can’t handle working more than 40 hours a week for my own sanity. Do I keep trying or take the masters? Any advice is greatly appreciated.,9,4,7.782911455065564,GradSchool
CV help!,"Hi all,

I recently decided to try to get into a PhD program- probably Strategic or Mass Communications. That means that I need to create a CV; the problem is, I've never done that before. I was wondering if I could get some tips or feedback- I'd be willing to e-mail.

Schools I am considering: Syracuse, Columbia, University of Kentucky, and University of Colorado Boulder. Was considering Harvard's Marketing PhD, but I feel like that's too big of a reach and a waste of money.",4,3,7.696175343954452,GradSchool
Pharmaceutical Sciences Master's: Resume relevant coursework?," What relevant coursework from my BSc. in Pharmacy can I include on my Resume for a MS in Pharmaceutical Sciences?

Example: Is ""Organic Chemistry Lab"" and the experiment techniques a valid addition to the resume?

Thanks for the help.",2,1,7.448339695806304,GradSchool
Any tips for an international student starting grad school soon?,,6,0,7.301916084695194,GradSchool
I need a more efficient way to take notes,"Long story short, I handwrite all my notes on readings. I take extensive notes, which have been great in preparing me for discussions and papers (my professors have told me they appreciate how prepared I am), but it also means it takes me forever to get through readings

What are some ways I can streamline the notetaking process?",11,8,8.094288769880379,GradSchool
Feeling intimidated by Grad School,"Hi, I was recently accepted to a Masters program in Nuclear Engineering, however I've been doubting myself in this program. There's only 3 other students with me and each feels leagues ahead of me. They seem to be able to do things like the homework much better than I can. I tend to pick the problem, identify the key terms in them, and then do a lot of googling or reading the textbook until I can find something relatable. They seem to know how to do it right off the bat. The topic of what we do in free time also came up and I seem to have way more free time then them. They are always busy doing something or working while I have a lot of time on my hands. I do work with a professor, but am not currently engaged in a project. I'm mainly just helping with some lab maintenance stuff and getting a SOP written up for a glovebox. Does anyone have any advice on this? I have had confidence issues in the past, so its not surprising that they show up here, but as I stated before these fellow students seem leagues ahead of me in terms of work ethic and overall intelligence.",2,2,7.797379047658156,GradSchool
"Life sucks, can you relate?","Living in a foreign country, but can't  go home due to political reasons (last time went home was 4 years ago),  don't wanna complain to parents so they don't worry about me

No significant other

Work/School sucks (PhD student with little progress)

Just watched the Joker movie, so I'm very depressed",25,132,8.805781825435934,GradSchool
How competitive it really is to get in a PhD program (STEM) for international students in Canada," Currently applying for PhD in STEM field for Canadian Universities. I have been in Canada for all my post-secondary degrees but still haven't got my permanent residence yet. I know Canadian Universities put a lot of strict quota on PhD admission of international students, especially STEM field. But just how competitive it is to get in for an international student? Specifically, I am looking for data such as 1 out X international students can possibly get into a PhD program. Or is there a strict upper cutoff for the number of international students can get in? Any info is appreciated! Thanks very much!",5,1,7.728883677287786,GradSchool
Very few MSc Programs for Microbio?,"Ive been trying to research Microbiology/Immunology Masters programs and Ive realized a ton of the universities I wanted to apply to only have a PhD track. Normally this wouldnt be an issue but I have been trying to avoid PhD programs because of the negative things Ive heard from my boss (I work in a lab as a tech) and others in terms of the culture, job prospects, etc. On top of that, I dont think I want to focus on research for my career. Why are there very little Masters programs dedicated to this field?",4,1,7.7508975661766755,GradSchool
Please help! Searching for a thesis topic to FINALLY graduate.,"Years ago, I made the terrible decision to enter a graduate program in the humanities at a private university on the East Coast. While the school was perfectly fine, my program was a DISASTER. Only one person in my small cohort graduated with a thesis that was less than stellar (I'm talking typos on the first page bad) yet their thesis passed.

On the other hand, I (like other cohort members) have struggled to receive support from my department. I have never received constructive criticism, only advice to add completely unrelated crap to my thesis. Yet it's a command, not even a suggestion. Ar this point, I am tasked with the responsibility of  finding a  topic that will for once and for all get me the damn degree. So here is the criteria:

It needs to be related to food insecurity and involve African Americans. That is all. I proposed something with chronic disease and the aforementioned subjects and I was told it was ""a tall order"". Any help is greatly appreciated.  If this is relevant, I now live on the West Coast. I just need. a simple qualitative study that I can push on through. Seriously.",9,0,7.751129047658157,GradSchool
How to make time for mental health?,"Hello!

I'll try to be brief. Essentially, the mental health services at my university says my case is too serious for them to deal with and has referred me to a nearby therapist with stricter hours to the point that is very difficult for me to meet up with them more than once a week (if I'm lucky!) due to my work.

I have one appointment scheduled, but I'm in a very bad place mentally due to external factors, to the point where I'm not sure if weekly therapy isn't enough.

I'm considering online therapy, but I'm hesitant about the cost/insurance taken. (I get a student discount with my referral.)",6,3,8.006337380991491,GradSchool
"what do you do when you studied as much as you could, as effectively as you could, to a point of memorizing 4 quizlets and you still got a C on a test?","Now mind you these were not small quizlets, yesterday when I was studying with my group they actually told me go home because I already knew everything and it was annoying them. Yet I have again failed to perform adequately on an exam. I did not study myself into a stupor but I certainly put in the effort and employed the techniques that were advised to me by the counselor and professor. I am completely at a loss, the counselor that helps people develop their study techniques is also at a loss because according to her I did everything right to prepare. I made flashcards, I wrote things out, I discussed things with groups, I did all of the reading, I highlighted the important concepts, I memorized every emphasized point from the lecture.I come to you all an overly caffeinated and exhausted shell of a human being that is completely out of ideas. Even if I do outstanding on the final assignment I will still have a C in the class. I need to figure out something fast because the same thing is happening in other courses. Has anyone been in this position and what did you do to fix it?

It’s occupational therapy school, human movement, orthopedics, clinical process, how to analyze and apply research ( evidence based practice) and fundamentals are very heavy cold hard memorize. I understand the concept of getting lost in the forest but I gotta know each of the trees before I can understand the forest the way this curriculum is set up. In seeking advice with the second year students they all said they lived and breathed quizlet.",15,3,8.009659140250749,GradSchool
What food to bring with you to a conference?,"I'm going to my first conference, a 4-day conference (within my country, so no worries about food restrictions), and I'm a bit flummoxed as what to bring with me or get locally while I'm there! Lunch is covered by the conference, I'll pack some meal bars for breakfast, but what are some good options for dinners? Ideally, I wouldn't want to eat out every night I'm there. I'm thinking maybe buying some frozen microwavable dinners locally? What are your guys go-to's for short-term travel?",5,1,7.767726269880379,GradSchool
"When you are going to go to Grad School in the future, does it really matter where you do your undergrad?","Due to some unfortunate circumstances, I am truly restricted to one university; unfortunately for that university, it is commonly met with some typical bashing when compared to other institutions; it means nothing to me, as I just want to receive my undergraduate education then head on to Grad School; my question is, can I use that as an argument? Can one truly say that it doesn't really matter where one finishes their undergrad, it's what one does during their undergrad that matters?",4,6,8.176916084695193,GradSchool
"For those that were accepted to multiple PhD programs, chose one, but left... how has your career or the rest of your schooling turned out?","I was accepted to four PhD programs. Foolish, but I chose the one with the biggest school and department name recognition and ranking. Other labs I interviewed with fit me a bit better. My goal was industry and I hoped my training at the school and lab I chose would pop out better on a resume.

Anyways, the feeling I got from the initial interviews and interactions I had with the lab I was in ranged from so-so to good. The relationship between me and the PI soured over time for many reasons, he was pretty abusive and would often yell and gaslight me, my mental health deteriorated, I self-harmed after 10 years clean, and I left with a MS. 

I enrolled in the university's business school, and I am now a semester away from finishing up an MBA. People in my old program say I look very healthy now. I later learned that my old PI has a negative reputation with many people in the department. I often wonder what if I chose one of the other schools where I was accepted and how my schooling would turn out, but I know that's not healthy.

I worked for 5 years after my BS in low level analyst roles, when I graduate I hope to slot myself in higher level analyst roles.

For those who had a similar path, how has everything turned out?",3,10,8.365295714324823,GradSchool
Questions for getting an MS,"Hello all. Am a 2nd year Electrical E student and doing well in school. I am starting to think about graduate school. I want to get a masters in another field like aerospace or engineering physics.  I am going to see my academic advisor next week but I feel like they always give me the worst answers.

Here are a few of my questions:

1.Is getting a masters in a different topic from your BS even a good idea?

2.Should I take the GRE this year or next year(JR year)? I get done all my math courses this spring.

3.Does internship help with getting scholarships and getting into graduate schools?

4.If I get an [engineering internship](https://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Electrical%20Engineering%20Co%20Op&rbc=LOCKHEED%20MARTIN%20CORPORATION&jcid=802e2be2e20a49cf&vjk=adfd267ef9779c0f)  should I pick that over my schools undergraduate research?

5. Should I pick an MS with a thesis option, MEng(1 year no thesis) ,or an MS without a thesis? In the end, I think I want to end up doing research for the government or some company. I don't think I would like working for Universities and I don't plan on getting a PHD.

Thank you.",1,0,7.885226269880378,GradSchool
Bully Senior Colleagues,"Anyone else have had to deal with senior colleagues that bully you and just give you a hard time, even though you yourself have done nothing bad to them? Makes that lab environment very hostile and an unpleasant place to work.",6,3,8.20184664025075,GradSchool
"Book recommendations for motivation, self discipline and overall inspiration","Hi all, I'm starting my (hopefully) last year of grad school and I've completely lost the momentum. I think anxiety, fear and being overwhelmed with what's coming (alot going on this year) made my body just freeze and not want to do anything.

I have a long commute to the lab everyday and I want to use it to read some books that might help get me out of this and keep me motivated as I go on. I was looking for some related to willpower but couldn't find anything that seemed too relevant. But I guess anything from dealing with perfectionism to healthy habits should be relevant.

Any recommendations? What have you guys read that could be at all interesting?",12,9,8.39340914025075,GradSchool
Can you apply for a grant for something you haven't yet been accepted to attend?,"There is a travel grant application deadline coming up soon that I really want to apply for. the problem is, I haven't actually been accepted to the conference I would use it for. I assume that I would be, but if I don't end up being accepted i'm unsure of what I will do with the money -- can I ask to use it for something else? I've missed a lot of grant opportunities because of deadlines like this.",2,2,8.118467010621119,GradSchool
"Started grad school this year and did really bad on my first exams, need to rant.","I’m working full time and don’t plan to leave my company for another job after graduating. Going for a Stats Masters degree to get into Data Science. 

Anyway, my first stats exam was basically a C. I know I can do better which is why I’m a bit annoyed. How much should I honestly care about getting As in grad school in my situation? I was told it doesn’t matter as much given my situation and life/work experience. Obviously I don’t want to fail though so I have to work harder from here on out.",4,3,8.283536455065564,GradSchool
Felt like very stupid in front of my advisor,Missed some very obvious points in our meeting. Can't stop wondering how he thought about me…,4,0,8.037853584695194,GradSchool
Submitted my thesis!,"My thesis was due today, although I actually submitted it on Friday. It feels very weird, like an entire part of my life has vanished. I have another paper for another class due soon so I’m not in full relax/celebration mode. But regardless, I feel like I have this massive extra amount of space in my thoughts where I’d keep my endless “thesis to do list” running. 

I genuinely enjoyed my research and the writing and revising process. Granted, that’s a bit rose tinted since it’s over now and there were definitely stressful times. Odd that it’s now just finished. My dad always said “a good artist knows when to put the brush down.” And I guess my brush is down!",1,15,8.669925343954453,GradSchool
Hit a dead end with the grad school decision and need help,"I really have no clue what to do or which jobs to apply for. I have a useless Digital Production (film) degree with a minor in Marketing that I have no idea what to do with it. You might think that I have a chance since my minor is Marketing, but really... I didn't learn shit with those 20 units worth of marketing classes. High demand skills like being able to operate a social media page and making content was not covered in my marketing minor... just a bunch of text book theories.

I have tried being a freelance editor and getting jobs in marketing but I have a skills gap. I lack high demand skills and feel like crap because I did not study anything that the market demands right now.

I am looking to do a master's degree to avoid looking for jobs and do something productive... possibly to gain more knowledge because I did not learn anything these 5 years of university. I did not learn about finance, social media, accounting, data analysis, etc. The thing is, I think a master's would help me expand my knowledge and I low key like studying. I want to do it in Spain for the price and because of the fact that I have been considering for years the expat lifestyle, so I might go away and never return. My dream has always been to study abroad and never got to do it through an exchange student program. A master's degree over there might give me the chance.

So, should I do a master's or keep looking for work in a job in a market that I do not have the skills to be in?

Pardon my bad English. I am from Puerto Rico.",1,1,8.15122164025075,GradSchool
Last Call for Study on Supervision & Cultural Identities (Graduate Student Supervisees in Mental Health Fields)," Greetings!

This is a final call for participants for a dissertation study, I'm a doctoral candidate in Counseling Psychology at the University of Akron, investigating psychotherapy supervisees’ experiences of discussions related to cultural identities in supervision. This dissertation is supervised by Dr. Suzette Speight. Participation in this study should take approximately 5-25 minutes to complete. Participants will have the option to be entered into a raffle for one of six $25 gift cards.

You may participate in this study is you are:

(1.) a psychotherapy supervisee who is currently receiving routine individual supervision of psychotherapy (at least twice a month) **as part of graduate training**, and

(2.) you are 18 years of age or older.

To participate in this study, please use the link below:

[https://akron.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV\_1G0is7UvSqOn2Hr](https://akron.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1G0is7UvSqOn2Hr)

Please feel free to share this call for participants, or the survey link, with anyone in your professional network who may be eligible to participate! 

Thank you!",0,0,8.18957812173223,GradSchool
Academic references-curators?,"Looking for a bit of advice-

I have a BA and MA in my field and it has been five years since I graduated the MA. For those five years I have had research assistant/associate positions at prominent art museums. In that time I had very close working relationships with both my supervisors-one curator and one curator/chair. Both women are PhDs and well respected scholars in their field. I am now applying to PhD programs in Art History and had hoped to ask both of them to be my reference. I am closer with them than any of my former professors. Plus, my position was academically involved, so they can speak to my research, writing, speaking, etc. My third reference would one professor who I have maintained contact with throughout the years. 

Is this a bad idea- two curators and one professor? Is it better to stick to one curator and reach out to a second professor, who I have not been in touch with since graduation?

Thank you all in advance!",1,1,8.200469325435934,GradSchool
Does a PhD over-qualify you for certain job/career positions? Would also love to hear what your day-to-day life is like for anyone outside of academia.,"TLDR: Will a PhD over-qualify me for positions, and force me into managerial positions only? I essentially want to be a workhorse, and I absolutely love the bench, but I have no desire whatsoever to be a PI or a manager. I would love a job that is my passion but not my obsession--one that is an 8-5 with a reliable structure that lets me have a life outside of work. I would love to hear from about what is outside of academia, or really what's outside of being a PI. What's your daily life like? Thanks all!


*********


Hi all,

I am in my second year of my PhD program (pre-qual). Based on the fact that I don’t want to really manage or lead a team, and I certainly do not want my own lab, I am wondering if getting a PhD is really where I should be heading. When I joined my program, it was partly because I didn’t really know what else to do. I had heard that just having a BS in microbiology doesn’t get you very far, and that a Master’s is essentially equivalent to a BS with two years of work experience. It seemed to me at the time that a PhD was ""required"" to obtaining a stable job.


The thing is, however, that I absolutely know I do not want to stay in academia. I dislike the publish or perish attitude and the competitive, almost frantic nature to be always working and always at the absolute forefront of knowledge that academia is steeped in. It constantly makes me feel like I do not know enough and like I am never doing enough. I love being at the bench and I love doing data analysis and communicating with people. I think military type/biosecurity research is the coolest thing, as well as astromicrobiology and agricultural engineering/ag infectious disease research (not sure what to call this). I also think clinical science, like an MLS, or anything in industry, would be incredibly rewarding.
Based on these career paths, is the PhD really necessary for what I am aiming for, or will it over-qualify me for the types of jobs I would love to work? Would love to hear anyone's experiences/feedback.

 Thanks very much",57,134,9.356487843954453,GradSchool
Dissertation/Thesis,"Hey guys! I'm planning to take up an MSc. Marketing next fall and as a part of the course I'll have to submit and defend my thesis/dissertation (not really sure what the difference is or if there even is one) and I was wondering if there are any sites that can give me access to such material so that I can read and familiarize myself with a existing matter on the spectrum, so that I will be better prepared to take it up when the time comes for me to do so.",1,0,8.31395312173223,GradSchool
Is it possible to work with faculty members outside of your program?,"Apologies if this post belongs in grad admissions.

I am an international student from Australia interested in applying for biochemistry/structural biology programs. I have found an advisor at Cornell who works in structural biology that I would like to work with, but she is affiliated with the chemistry and biophysics programs, which I am probably not eligible for (no physics background). Due to prohibitive cost, I also cannot take the GRE before applications, and can only apply for GRE-optional programs - the biophysics program requires the GRE but not the biochemistry program. She is not listed as faculty for the biochemistry/structural biology program at the same university. Is it possible to join a program, then work with faculty that are not listed under your program if their work is very closely related to the program? Wondering if anyone here has had any similar experiences.",4,11,8.866476269880378,GradSchool
Does this sound like my department is scamming PhD fellows?,,16,20,9.08571238099149,GradSchool
I feel like I'm in the wrong field...,"Even at the start of my chemistry PhD I wanted to do physics. However I had no experience with physics and thought that doing physical chemistry would be a good way to bring me closer to the field I prefer. This turned out not to be the case at all.

I hate my research. I hate talking about my research. I hate every paper I read.

I'm a fourth year, and I can't leave because that would fuck over my professor who is coming up for tenure next year.",34,60,9.38866376988038,GradSchool
Is Word + Mendeley/Zotero Combination that bad? Why is LaTex better?,,0,0,8.48426562173223,GradSchool
Could I get some tips on how to handle a brand new lab?,"I'm a master's student just starting out, so realistically I want to complete my project in 2 years. I'm super interested in starting a project with this really sweet relaxed advisor, however her lab is just coming up, literally there is currently me, a research assistant and a volunteer.

Do you have any tips on how to be a great asset to a brand new lab, pushing my own project forward and everything?",3,3,8.7436984921026,GradSchool
"Need advice: finishing next semester, but I no longer trust one of my co-advisers.","My PhD research is interdisciplinary: historical climatology. I have co-chairs, one from each side. My climatology advisor made it clear this week that he does not think I should be allowed to participate in the discussions of climatologists and meteorologists. He sees me as only being a historian. We’re five years and two publications into this, but he has refused to be a coauthor on the third paper. After this and some other conversations, I no longer trust him to give me a positive recommendation for the kind of jobs that I am starting to apply to. If he is not going to participate in the research or give me decent recommendations, there is no reason to continue under him, except that I am supposed to defend in the spring. Is it possible to replace a co chair in your last year? He is the only strictly climatologist in our department, and I would have to replace him with someone in our department. I do not want to drop him and not be able to find a replacement. I am also wary of asking around first, in case word gets back to him. Either way, I am going to have trouble finding enough recommendation letters to apply to jobs without him. I have not worked with much of anyone else, and had been counting on his letters.

Does anyone have any advice for this kind of situation?",0,3,8.797517936547045,GradSchool
How do you cite professional short courses?,"I can't seem to find any clear guidelines, the only APA listing I could find was to potentially use guidelines put out by Douglas University.

Basically the components would be:

(Name of Short Course)

(Organizing Body and name of Conference)

(Date of Short Course)

(Presenter of Module)

(Title of Module)

I don't think there would be any additional relevant pieces. Has anyone had to do this? I assume it'd be similar to citing a conference poster or technical talk. 

Thanks",0,2,8.75645312173223,GradSchool
6 THINGS YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE COMING TO STUDY TO THE UK!,,0,0,8.481916084695193,GradSchool
How not to get overwhelmed by supervisor's comments?,"I've been working on my dissertation for two years now and I find the hardest part is when I get feedback. My supervisor usually goes through my work and sends me the annotated document with all her comments/revisions. The problem I'm facing is that when it comes to going over them I get really overwhelmed and it usually takes me a while (days even a week) to sit down and get to my revisions. I'm not sure why I get so overwhelmed (perhaps my need for perfection), but my deadline is drawing near and it is hindering my progress. Any advice or tips?",4,17,9.25832812173223,GradSchool
Extremely anxious over upcoming comprehensive exams,"I'm on the final stretch of preparation for my comps next month and I am absolutely feeling the pressure for this huge exam. How have you dealt with your comps without breaking down and feeling like you'll fail? All the studying alone and information overload is driving me crazy, to say the very least. Just need to hear some words of assurance from anyone who's been through this. Hope you're all having a much better day.",3,6,9.187147566176675,GradSchool
Tips before applying to grad schools?,"Do you guys have any tips before applying to grad schools?

Any life tips/things that you wouldn't want to miss out on (like deadline ofc...) will be appreciated.

Thank you!",3,1,8.8411984921026,GradSchool
Asking for recommendations for grad school should I give 5 day or 7 day notice,"I recently decided to apply for the social work masters program. Due to all these things coming up and finalizing my decision to apply really recently, I'm a bit worried. I already sent in my application, transcript and essays. The only thing that is left is the two recommendation letters. I'm nervous about asking my current 2 supervisors since I am still working there, and it's really hard to ask, especially since I'm out on the field a lot and barely see them. But I am going to send out an email tomorrow asking them, but the deadline is October 15th!

I feel bad that there is about a week left. I'm not sure if I should ask them to complete it by this Friday, giving them 5 days, or give them the weekend, (even though office is closed), and have them turn it in by Monday, (Oct 14), one day before the deadline. I worry it would be too close to the deadline and risky. But if I ask them to send it in by Friday, that seems too short.",13,1,9.096869788398896,GradSchool
Can I get into a top-tier school with a low GPA?,"I am applying to grad schools by the end of the semester and still narrowing down exactly which programs to apply to. I have been doing research for two years and my PI believes I have the aptitude for prestigious schools like Stanford or MIT. The thing is, I've been a terrible student during college and my GPA reflects that. I have a 2.9 at the moment and some schools mention you shouldn't even apply with a GPA under 3. My research will most likely be a big selling factor, I will have two first author and a number of second author papers as well as solid recommendation letters. Do you think I have any chance at getting into these schools or should I not even try?",12,0,9.102309603213712,GradSchool
The True Cost of a PhD: Giving Up a Family for Academia,,142,262,10.381580436547045,GradSchool
Advice for the Process,"Hi, everybody! I’m a freshman physics major at a pretty well ranked college and have always dreamed of eventually getting my PhD in physics from one of my favorite universities. Anyways, I just finished my first wave of college midterms and everything went really well. Also, excitingly, there’s room for improvement on my behalf due to my first semester being highly difficult compared to my peers in the program, plus, and most importantly, the whole transitioning to college thing which has not by any means been easy. With that being said, I was worried about the academic transition to college but with hard work, the adjustment and process is really beginning to feel more natural and things are coming along well. However, as I continue to work hard for solid grades, what else should be done early in my college career to put me in the best position possible? I’ve begun to form relationships with my all my professors (especially calculus and physics, and actually know the one on a first name basis), but what else should be done? I’m planning on applying for research positions such as REU and MUSE (program at my school), but usually these opportunities only start for sophomores and onwards. In turn, what would you guys recommend to do at this early point to best build my application and set myself up for success in my field?",2,0,9.187656825435933,GradSchool
This question is probably way too vague but asking anyway,I’m sure this depends on the field and a lot of other things but I’m just generally curious right now. Would a master’s degree from Europe be respected in the US? For a US citizen who does a master’s abroad and then comes back home to find a job,1,0,9.21946238099149,GradSchool
"What exactly does ""securing the interest of a prospective advisor"" mean? Can I apply without a confirmation?","Some of the programs that I'm interested in say that I should secure the interest of a prospective advisor. I've sent plenty of emails and gotten *some* replies, however, I'd like to get my apps in. Can I just apply and list names of profs that I've been in some contact with?

I have not specifically gotten any confirmation from any prospective advisors, but I feel like it's important that I get my applications in. With how busy these folks are, I think that it's setting my hopes too high to expect them to reply to my emails.

Any advice or knowledge of this process is appreciated!",6,1,9.224717010621118,GradSchool
(During PhD) Master's thesis and PhD dissertation,"Hi, I wasn't sure if this question would be better suited to r/GradSchool or r/gradadmissions so please forgive me if this is not the right place! (If that's the case I will delete this post if it does not get taken down.) I am looking at humanities PhD programs and a number of the programs involve obtaining a Master's while en route to the Doctorate; I'm wondering if it's possible to do a Master's thesis on a different topic and with a different advisor than the PhD dissertation, within the same program? I understand this may be too general, but I thought I might ask in case others have done this. Thank you!!",4,0,9.314543399510008,GradSchool
ABD! No revisions!,"Y’all! Passed my comps, and proposal defense, no revisions and a boss on my committee spent 10 minutes telling me the “compelling claims” and how he and I should go after the NSF DDRI! Lil intimidated, but onto the next stage! Grants and fieldwork! So happpyyyy!!!",3,43,10.174416084695194,GradSchool
Question about research proposal for NSF GRFP- tying myself to a grant?,"Hi all, I have tried to find anything on this but have come up short. Briefly, I am proposing to capitalize on data collection currently underway for my NSF GRFP research proposal. I also specifically give the R01 number and PI. My advisor is actually the one who suggested this as it gives a full project under which mine can take place, but she doesn't have too much knowledge of the GRFP process, and I was wondering whether anyone had any insight on doing this.  Thanks in advance!",5,1,9.39082812173223,GradSchool
I passed my qualifying exam!,"Passed the whole thing! I just found out 6 weeks after submitting the final response. It’s been quite a suspenseful time. 

I’m so relieved! :D",13,178,10.677980899510008,GradSchool
"Anybody starting grad school at a large, prestigious university after doing an undergrad at a small, unknown university?","The transition has been difficult, and although I'm making lots of friends, it's challenging to find a sense of community in such a large institution. I kind of only feel like a number, and it's a bit overwhelming. I really miss the small, tight-knit community at the small university where I did my undergrad. Maybe I just need to find a good place on campus to study and work and the rest will come? 

&#x200B;

It also doesn't help that I'm at a research tower associated with the hospital which a few blocks from campus.",9,22,10.216638306917416,GradSchool
Anyone else feeling overwhelmed by the sheer volume of the knowledge one needs to cram into their skull?,I haven't worked actively on my thesis for a while. I am trying to complete all the assignments on time and fill in the gaps in my knowledge. I have read a significant number of papers and whatnot about my topic but everything is just so convoluted. I know about so many things about my topic but i have very little to show for it yet and so little time to do everything.,8,66,10.498316547658156,GradSchool
How do I get a,How do i get cool shoe,0,0,8.95727488099149,GradSchool
Passed my MSc viva yesterday!,"Submitted my dissertation last week and had the viva on it yesterday. I think it actually went pretty well, wasn't as bad as I was expecting! 

Now I'm done with uni, can't believe it. There's been a lot of times, especially recently with deadlines coming up, that I thought I wasn't going to be able to finish.",0,9,10.101059603213713,GradSchool
Best Grad School for..,"Senior Undergrad studying Political Science with a minor in Computing and Information systems, I have an important question. 

What are the best programs (best as in highly rated and well-known institutions) for a Student that wants to go into Single Issue Lobbying.",0,0,9.122124418028527,GradSchool
Trudeau Scholarship 2020,"Hello, anyone here applying for this year's edition ?",0,0,9.719126732843343,GradSchool
One clinical evaluation away from being kicked out.,"Hi, I have crippling performance anxiety.  When I was in elementary/middle/high school, I would skip class every time there was a performance or presentation. When it was university, I dropped classes once I saw the word “presentation” on the syllabus.

Now I’m in grad school (masters of physical therapy), I have to do clinical evaluations 1-3 times a week. I know the material well. I keep up with the material and able to teach others. I practice a ton too. But when it comes to the day, I fuck up. I rush because I’m nervous and I miss little things. The profs also don’t like my demeanour. 

In my program, each student can redo one of this evaluations three times. I failed the same one twice, so I have one more final try before I get kicked out. I’m thinking of going to get some propranolol today from a walk in and to also just find a way to chill out. I’m always so stressed and nervous. 

Does anybody have any advice or any support?",5,9,10.269427658769267,GradSchool
Rant over Prof and Student.,"Basically a student asked for help from the prof for the assignment and asked why she got full marks. So now he noticed I accidentally missed a question and didn't give her 0 instead of full marks for a question (it was 3 marks out of 33).

Let me tell you if I was an undergrad and I got free marks, I'd be celebrating. It's almost like a dream come true. But some people have no common sense and would want to destroy their own grade.

So now this prof who I have been addressing ""Dr."" (who didn't bother correcting me) who doesn't even have a PhD deducted this dumb student's grade (who is ofc unhappy). I got BS lecture from the prof, and this asshole escalated something this small to the department and I got a 1-strike warning (3 means my funding is cut) for a silly mistake. 

Worst part is that I don't even know if it was truly I graded it since students deposit their assignment into the wrong marking box all the time and I was tired when listening to this prof so i just yes'd him today.

Now basically he wants me to check every single detail of a Math paper and point out every single tiny mistake. There are like over ten questions and over like 50 stacks of paper. He gives us 5 days (3 business days - Thurs, Friday and Monday. Btw it is due Monday lol) to grade them. For those who have not graded a math paper before, it isn't like marking an essay. 

Right now I am grading his papers which he made a blatant algebra mistake in the solutions (Mathematica agreed with me) and I just told hm about it and he hasn't emailed me back. I am really starting hate this place. My office is a dump (located outside the department) with no personal computer or anything and the city I live in just suck.

Thanks for reading my rant.",3,5,10.181719325435933,GradSchool
Has anyone made the conscious decision to not make their PhD the epicenter of their life?,"Recently I switched advisors and had about 4 months beforehand where I was in limbo. Long story short, I had no research projects and there was a point at which I thought I would have to leave the program & my old advisor would try to screw my career (he had done this to a previous grad student). I essentially lost my sense of self and went into a severe depression. Now coming out of it, I realize my PhD was my \*entire\* life. All aspects of my life outside of school were brushed to the side and I felt so incredibly alone when I didn't have school to fill my time. At least in my program, it seems like there is an expectation of your PhD being all-consuming and I can't do that for 4 more years. I absolutely love what I'm researching and will still work my ass off. I can't imagine doing anything else, just not to the point where school is the only thing important in my life.",56,235,11.264566547658156,GradSchool
Emailing faculties for Masters in Canada,"I'm looking to apply for a master's in mathematics in some Canadian universities this coming fall. Now, I saw that in the requirements, most of them require you to contact a faculty member in advance, get their approval (something like how they'd be able to supervise you for your studies) and then apply through the portal. 

Now, my question is- when is the good time to send emails to the faculties? The programs I'm looking for have deadlines in early February, mid to late january. Will now be a good time? 

I'd appreciate it if someone with experience doing this (with Canadian schools or anyone) could respond. 

Thank you.",5,2,10.357575806917415,GradSchool
Does anyone have a rough estimate as to how long a Master’s thesis is supposed to be for science degrees?,Im in a Masters of Pharmacology program and I might do the optional second year where I pick the direction of research I conduct in our labs (its in a College of Medicine so funds are aplenty) but Im unsure as to how long a science Master’s thesis is supposed to be. Ive seen some humanities thesis be 100-150 pages,4,1,10.114323492102601,GradSchool
An Imposter Syndrome Is Among Us!,,0,17,11.055550343954453,GradSchool
Master’s Funding?,"I’m looking to apply for a master’s soon, and this is probably all dependent on location, degree, grades etc. but how often are master’s funded? What has been everyone’s success with not taking on loans in grad school?",14,1,10.725156825435933,GradSchool
Am I the only one feeling that I made the wrong grad school decision?,"Most of us put an enormous amount of effort into Ph.D. applications. I was lucky (or unlucky) to get multiple offers - two from top-ranked universities. I left both of these to join a tier-three university because I felt I had a great research interest match with a professor here. One month into my grad program, I am not liking the lab culture, the general university culture and the fact that there are very few faculties in my department (which translates to very few talks related to my field). I am struggling to integrate into a foreign culture and bond with my cohorts. Meanwhile, my college batchmates went to top places (and I feel inferiority complex). I have lately been feeling very lonely and depressed. I think I made the wrong decision and I feel I should re-apply :(.",11,16,11.13846701062112,GradSchool
Anyone planning on doing more after a PhD?,"I’m pursuing a PhD in philosophy right now, and I’m absolutely in love with it in spite of the dark, difficult spaces. Has anyone gone on to pursue a graduate degree in a different field after a PhD? I would love to go on to study Classics (I’m doing Greek, Latin, and German alongside my philosophy courses), perhaps just an MA, but could imagine going on to history as well. Is that absurd? What’s the process like going from one grad program to another? Better or worse chances of being accepted, knowing you’ve proven yourself capable of graduate study already? 

Cheers",8,5,10.798617473584082,GradSchool
Should I take an extra year in bachelors to increase my chances of getting into a masters program?,"I want to get a masters in Clinical Psychology. I go to a state school and hope to get my masters there as well.

My academic record is pretty bad.

First, I dabbled in three different majors before taking a gap year and finally finding my calling in psychology. It's been six years (some of it part time, some of it gap year) since I started college and I have at least one year left on my bachelors.  I was really pressured to go directly to a 4 year college right out of high school when I had zero life experience and no idea what I wanted to do with my life, and this was the result.

I have 11 W's.  Basically I just didn't know how to college and for most of my college career I suffered from untreated generalized anxiety disorder and depression.  I'm doing much better now, and I have gotten all A's since I came back from my gap year. That's not really something you can put on a personal statement though.

My overall GPA is 2.99, and it will definitely be above 3.0 by the end of this semester.  My major GPA is 4.00 and I plan to keep it that way, or as close as I can possibly get it.

Honestly, if I were to look at my own transcript with fresh eyes, I would see someone who really struggled through school. 

Technically I have about one year left -- only 30 credit hours.  However if I retake three classes, I could bump my GPA by .20 (which is a lot compared to what getting all A's in those 30 credit hours I have left would get me.) Retaking those classes would require that I take at least another semester.

I'm also thinking of taking an entire extra year of classes because I have few upper-division classes in my major, despite being able to graduate because of the upper-division classes I've taken in other majors.  I don't know if it's a very good look to have so few actual classes in my major.

Another reason I'm considering taking an extra year is because I don't know if one year is enough time to really do meaningful research and a practicum and such.  I'm basically starting from scratch in January in that regard -- I haven't even joined the Psychology club yet because I've been going to school part time and working part time since I came back from my gap year.

All this considered though, I just don't know how hard it is to get into masters programs.  All anyone seems to ever talk about is PhD programs. Is it really going to make that much difference for me to take the extra year? Is it overkill and a waste of money? Or on the flip side, is it never going to be enough? I'm lost.",3,2,10.722795714324823,GradSchool
Anyone else frustrated with balancing schoolwork and research?,I just started my PhD program this Fall and it's frustrating not having as much time I did during my undergrad to focus on my research. I do so much reading and writing for my courses every week that whenever I get a short break the last thing I want to do is write or read. Now I understand why professors use holiday breaks to catch up on all of their research. That's the main reason I am looking forward to Thanksgiving break lol. Anyone else have this issue?,4,13,11.195804973584082,GradSchool
Frank discussion of MFA Design programs,"To help people decide where they would like to study: here is some first hand information gathered through the years on 2d design MFA programs in the US (in order of tuition expense, otherwise unscientific methods.) Would be cool if anyone wanted to add other MFA programs to the list, or debate the quality of the following notes:

**University of Texas School of Art, Austin**, MFA Design, Austin,  Texas. [https://designcreativetech.utexas.edu/mfa-design](https://designcreativetech.utexas.edu/mfa-design) Flagship state school means great resources and low tuition. Excellent student body, drawing particularly from the region. Excellent facilities, and accomplished international faculty, some educated at other prestigious schools such as RISD, U Penn, Glasgow School of Art, SAIC, and many from Texas. Very fun, big university campus in a great little city filled with fantastic food. Austin is pretty chill, but Texas is a very extreme state - the Saudi Arabia of the US - with very problematic politics, so if you are different in any way, not even Austin is safe. Weather is almost perfect, just a little too hot in summer, but moderate year around, low risk for extreme weather events. The location is is far from other centers, isolated, and dependent on regional industries, limited in culture generally. Cheap tuition (particularly if you live in Texas) with TA and scholarship possibilities. Currently: $12,000 for Texas residents and $22,957 for out-of-state students. 

**Virginia Commonwealth University School of Art**, MFA Design/Visual Communications, Richmond, Virginia. [https://arts.vcu.edu/graphicdesign/mfa/](https://arts.vcu.edu/graphicdesign/mfa/) Extraordinary art department housed in a mediocre public university in a somewhat reasonable little city in the northernmost deep south. This department has resources, connections, and a mildly radical reputation. This department is well-supported, well-funded and beloved, a particular achievement for a public school. Students are highly supported by nurturing faculty. Isolated little region, but not too far from DC. Richmond itself is building a Portland/Brooklyn-like reputation with craft stuff, etc, but still mostly a de-industrialized southern capital city with a middling quality of life overall. Scholarship and TA opportunities, and a reasonable tuition rate. Currently: Virginia residents: $12,134 out of state: $24,741

**Cranbrook School of Art**, MFA design. Birmingham, Michigan.  [https://cranbrookart.edu/departments/2d-design/](https://cranbrookart.edu/departments/2d-design/) Storied history of US modernism in gorgeous campus setting. Great studios, and fantastic facilities. Very highly motivated students who go on to professional activities. Strong visiting faculty, and committed department head. Student results are highly accomplished, but not as committed to innovative experiment compared to other top schools such as Yale, Werkplaats Typografie in NL.  Has been financially unstable for a few years, long-term faculty in other departments have been leaving. Potential for more cuts and instability that will affect educational experience. Inconvenient distance from nearest major city, Detroit, very boring and inactive, car-centric, suburban setting (a cloistered existence). Michigan has 4 distinct seasons, winter is too long, and summer is humid. Low risk for extreme weather events. Very expensive, not many scholarship opportunities. No TA possibility since only grad school. Currently $37,828 per year

**Yale School of Art**, MFA Graphic Design, New Haven Connecticut. [https://www.art.yale.edu/graphic-design](https://www.art.yale.edu/graphic-design) Its the ivy league, so this is privilege and power. New Haven is sort of sweet when you get to know it, but actually terrible when you stop and think about the weather, expense and depressing conditions. ""Cohesive, investigative body of work"" and an overall conceptual practice is emphasized, appealing to the top cultural sectors rather than popular industry.  Great facilities, and access to top resources across Yale. Interesting collaborations with the other MFA degrees. Top practitioners pass through, and highly accomplished designers as teachers. Somewhat obviously connected to Werkplaats Typografi, the famed NL design school: Karel Martens, the founder of that school, is also faculty at Yale. Very connected to New York City via high-end professional tracks, although the commute is tedious. Very, very motivated students, but also demonstrating ugly entitlement that does not always live up to student abilities. Extraordinarily expensive, but this rich school can hand out grants. Great if you can get in, and get funding. Currently: $43,230 per year

**Art Center College of Design**, MFA Graphic Design, Pasadena California. [http://www.artcenter.edu/academics/graduate-degrees/graphic-design/overview.html](http://www.artcenter.edu/academics/graduate-degrees/graphic-design/overview.html) Highly active, highly industry connected department with top designers instructors. Very fashionable, perhaps too hip, emphasis on entertainment industry and slickness. Excellent facilities. Specialized institutions doing highly relevant work such as Hoffman Milken Center for Typography. Pasadena is nice-ish, far from downtown LA because of miserable traffic, but metro train is great if also tediously slow (compared to other cities train transit, cannot compare to anything in EU). Very, very expensive, but there are some need-based scholarships and some grants. TA possibilities. Currently $47,388 per year

**CalArts**, MFA Graphic Design, Santa Clarita California.  [https://art.calarts.edu/programs/graphic-design/mfa](https://art.calarts.edu/programs/graphic-design/mfa) This school, founded by Disney, has been connected to entertainment industry since the beginning. It has a sky-high reputation, but the reality is somewhat less ideal with an absurd cost of tuition with negligible comparative results. The facilities are good, but not the best, even some state schools are better equipped. Faculty are design stars, but one gets a similar feeling when visiting the rock-n-roll hall of fame. Very little consideration for the students in this competitive environment, that may be meritocratic, or maybe just a lottery machine depending on who you ask. Santa Clarita is a nasty little exit off the highway in the lost hills above LA. Traffic is hell on earth, but the recently functional train is functional if you are going somewhere near the stops. Weather is perfect except when there are fires burning in all directions. Currently $50,850 	

**RISD**, MFA Graphic Design, Providence Rhode Island. [https://www.risd.edu/academics/graphic-design/graduate/](https://www.risd.edu/academics/graphic-design/graduate/) This is the top ranked, and obviously a good choice, but only for certain people. Hard to get in, expensive, emphasizing making over thinking, this is the boot-camp for industry workhorses. Skills are emphasized. Top facilities, studios, and faculty. Best industry connections across the board, but skewed to the east coast. Providence is cute, lots of flowing water and colonial era buildings, but also bleak, far too expensive, and cold (weather and people). Can actually walk around the city if you can afford to live somewhere in the center. There are some scholarship and TA possibilities, but cannot offset the absolutely stratospheric tuition costs. Currently: $50,960 per year.",0,3,10.889184603213712,GradSchool
Those who got/are getting their Masters in something completely different from their undergrad degree. Why? And where are you now?,"I studied anthropology (my interest was archaeology) as an undergrad. However, I am gonna do either enviormental science or geology as my Masters. My current job inspired me to change my study. What's your stories?",13,3,11.006210066176674,GradSchool
Crafting a good statement of purpose for a master's degree application?,Does anyone have any tips on this? I'm kind of lost on where to start and I would very much like it if someone gave me some suggestions.,1,0,10.705527195806305,GradSchool
My new advisor is AWESOME!,"He actively works with me so that I can familiarize myself with the relevant literature. He let me borrow his book so that I can understand the fundamentals of the research area. He let me audit his class and sent me the note packages. And today he introduced me to his wife (who is also a professor). They said they hope to meet my husband, maybe over lunch or something, and they'd be happy to discuss ideas and get to know each other.

This is another thing that I was missing from my previous advisor. He wasn't personable. With him it was usually always *business*. Not only that, but he just wasn't encouraging or motivating, and I felt like I had zero direction. I knew I wasn't giving my 100% but at the same time I felt like I was at my limit. Now my new advisor is more like a mentor; I'm not even *officially* working with him until next semester, yet we are working together, and I'm actively trying to have a better understanding. He supports me combining ideas. I am actively working *not* because he pushes me, but because he *motivates* me. With him I feel like giving my 115%.

I'd say that the point of this post is finding a *mentor* rather than a *boss* can really help you reach your full potential.",26,209,11.920816547658157,GradSchool
"Given that I’ve an American undergrad degree, what kind of master’s programs should I be looking into in UK, if I want to practice as a licensed therapist in UK?","I’m not sure where to post this question so I apologise in advance if this is the wrong forum. Long story short, I want to spend some time in UK. I have a bachelors in biology and psychology. I want to become a licensed therapist and teach at university level. I am confident that my gpa is high enough to get my foot into the door least to say. I can’t get into a PhD program because I don’t have any experience, except for a year of independent study, no pubs though. I was thinking of practising as a therapist first with a masters then go to a PhD program later on, if I still wish to.",1,4,10.983918399510008,GradSchool
Masters of Public Administration or Urban Planning?,"Hi there! I'm interested in making a career transition into government, and I've been considering getting either a Masters of Public Administration or Masters in Urban Planning, and I'm hoping for your help.

I came to this decision through an interest in urban planning (especially transportation planning). That's where my passion currently lies. But I've long been interested in a variety of areas in government, and I know that, as one moves up the urban planning ladder, it all becomes about politics anyway, and perhaps the leadership skills I'd learn in the MPA would be more useful than, say, learning about road design. I hope to eventually take on a leadership position in managing government programs, and that doesn't necessarily have to be in urban planning. I'm wondering if an MPA would help me cast a wider net as well as keep my options open. Also, an MPA is one year, not two like urban planning, which is attractive.

Really, what I'm missing is an understanding of where these degrees could take me. Is it harder to find a job with either one of them? Is it easier to move up the government ladder if you have an MPA? Does getting an MPA preclude one from urban planning jobs?

Thanks in advance for your thoughts.",1,2,10.931557288398897,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Network at a conference?

* Earn the opportunity to run a workshop series?

* Celebrate your birthday?

* Start your dissertation research?

* Start planning for a research paper?

* Win an award?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",22,8,11.292691547658157,GradSchool
Good jobs for MSc student while in school,"Hey guys, 

Currently in a Research Master's at a university that doesn't have undergrads (No GTA positions). I am burning out working full time on top of my full time schooling. My current boss won't let me cut my hours so I wanted to see if anyone had any good ideas on part time (30hrs) jobs that students could take that pay well enough to cover living expenses. I've been trying to find a position in a lab but it seems like funding is an issue. Open to any suggestions. Thanks!",3,1,11.006754047658156,GradSchool
Having a Hard Time Teaching— Not Sure What to Do?,"Hi guys— I am in teaching hell and I’m not sure how to deal.

My department requires PhD students to teach. I was slotted in to a 20-stusent Gen Chem lab that meets 2x a week for 6 hr/week. I am only paid for the 6 hours.

Here’s the thing: I am expected to spend a maximum of 10 (unpaid) hours grading. The lab directors assign *8 assignments per student per week.* I am expected to grade *160 assignments*, off the clock, a week. These are full-on lab reports, some of which are clearly written in 15 minutes and are unparseble gibberish I can barely read. It takes me much longer than 10 hours to go through everything a week, possibly because I also have a learning disability and take longer than a neurotypical student to read.

My pre-med students are absolute terrors that harass me for every point I take off, send indignant e-mails to myself and the lab directors over every infraction (one sent *five* because the manual didn’t specify he was looking for *white* globules, not just globules in general, during an experiment), and complain that I don’t grade fast enough.  Some don’t follow directions or don’t listen to me, then tell the lab directors I’m a terrible instructor. Others will play possum and ask so many questions about every single step that other students form a line behind them to ask me questions. I can feel myself becoming more strict and callous, and my students are just pushing me harder.

The lab directors are helpful when I ask for advice and defend me to my students, but they blame me for the slow pace wrt grading. Even my advisor is now coming into lab to tell me to hurry up grading. I have two sets of assignments graded and sent back, but I’m still staring down four ungraded sets— Four assignments per student, per set.

I am trying to finish my coursework and prepare for my second level, but it has now become impossible. This nightmare class has taken over my life. I’m answering student emails at all hours, grading all weekend, and grading all day when I’m supposed to be doing my research. My heart races and I begin to panic whenever I see a new email about the class in my inbox. I no longer want to come in to teach at all. I just want to stay home and hide from everyone.

Any advice on how to manage my time and/or look into getting a lower teaching load? Or advice on how to survive?",7,2,11.16733275136186,GradSchool
How specific should you be about your interests in a statement of purpose?,"Trying to write my statement of purpose and it keeps coming out like an abstract for a thesis. Whenever I write what movements and theories I'm interested in, I keep feeling the need to expound on why, and then it feels to detailed. My field is complit if that helps.",1,0,11.013351269880378,GradSchool
PhD Situation - I need some advice,"I am in a three year PhD program that is based in Australia. Currently I am finishing my second year and preparing for my third and final year. Now this situation is a bit tricky to explain so lets stat from the beginning.

&#x200B;

My US-based work offer to support me financially during my PhD and hooked me up with an advisor in Australia who used to work at the same place.  I received funding from work for data collection and equipment, and a full tuition waiver with living stipend from the university. Everything seemed like it would be a great fit, but shortly after arriving in Australia, I realized the program was very misleading and not what I wanted.  Within two months of arriving, my advisor decided to share an unpublished manuscript I was working on (and shared with him to get feed back) with one of his undergraduate honours students. He did this without my permission and ultimately they decided to use my research after realizing my methods actually work. I consider this to be plagiarism and spoke with him about it, and he agreed to put me on any future publications they do with his undergrad students work. However, the situation has never really felt right to me.

&#x200B;

As the year progressed everything got worse. This PhD program offers absolutely no experience that will benefit me or my career. Being in Australia is a big waste of time. The advisor is an absolute asshole, has done nothing for my research project, and has derailed it on several occasions by not getting anything done within our agreed upon deadlines, and in my opinion does not deserve to have his name on any of my research because his lack of involvement. It's so bad that he is not even capable of doing my research on his own because he lacks the technical expertise to do it. I am basically a paper-cow for him to cash in on. Because of all this, I decided to do my second year data collection back in the US while working. However, now my advisor is forcing me to return to Australia and essentially holding my scholarship against me. If I don't return I will lose my tuition scholarship. However, if I do return it will be another waste of time where I sit around doing jack shit. The only reason I haven't dropped out yet is because my work has invested thousands of dollars into my research project, and I don't want to do wrong by them.

&#x200B;

Before I went with the Australian school, I was offered another PhD spot at a US university. This person was also previously affiliated with my work. I decided against it at the time because Australia seemed like it would be the best option given it was only a three year program, but now I regret it. If I could make that decision again I would go with the US university. The professor has reached out to me on a number of occasions and told me I always have a spot at his university if I want it. He is actually a really nice guy and I know I would be happy doing research with him.

&#x200B;

With all that said, here is my situation where I need advice. I am one year away from finishing the PhD in Australia. It requires me to go back to finishing since my advisor is holding my tuition as leverage to get me back there. So here are the options I am consdering:

&#x200B;

1. Do I finish the Australian PhD?
2. Should I quit and restart a PhD at the US university? (This would take between 4-6 years to finish and risk pissing off my work). This PhD would likely have to be self-funded.
3. Do I finish the Australian PhD and then start a new PhD at the US university?
4. Do I finish the Australian PhD and try to do a postdoc at the US university?

All I know is that going back to Australia will make me absolutely miserable. My gut feeling is that I should just drop out and start over at a US university, but logically it makes sense to just finish since I am close to being done. I don't know what to do.",5,5,11.393848955065563,GradSchool
Applied Stats M.S vs Stats M.S for PhD in Stats,"Hi everyone!


I am a 3rd year at a unknown state school in California (top 50) studying math with an option in statistics. I would like to work in the tech/finance industry. I was wondering if I wanted to get into a top 20 PhD stats program, if a masters in applied stats or thereotical stats would be better as a stepping stone. 



I've decided to not go directly straight into a PhD program since I think my undergraduate grades in math  (3.67 GPA) and school ranking are not high enough, but I will still apply to a few just for kicks. 


Anyways my question is would I be foolish to do an applied stats masters as a stepping stone for a PhD program?



Coursework:


Calc 1,2: A


Calc 3: B


Linear Algebra: A


Real Analysis I,II: B, A


Abstract Algebra: A


Probability Theory: B


Statistical Theory: A


Regression Analysis: In progress


Statistical Inference (Grad): A


Data Informatics (Grad): A


Random Processes: In progress


Measure Theory: In progress


Stocastic Calculus: In progress",12,1,11.122807288398898,GradSchool
Possibly a helpful site,"Happy Friday y'all,

I stumbled across this site this morning while looking for a protocol. Basically it looks like a site where you can upload and find various protocols either in the literature or that individuals researchers decide to share. I haven't explored the site much so I don't know how helpful it will be but so far it seems good. Hopefully it'll help some of y'all finding those methods.

[https://www.protocols.io](https://www.protocols.io)",1,3,11.380527195806305,GradSchool
PhD offer - looking for advice,"I'm currently in my second month of my Masters degree in Political science and I just got what seems to be an amazing offer from my BA Thesis supervisor.

So me and her worked really really well together and we are actually trying to get my thesis published as an article. In one of the last meetings we had she mentioned something about doing a PhD together but I didn't pay too much attention since I thought she wasn't serious. 

Yesterday I received an email form her asking me to work under her supervision towards a PhD proposal for a project which will be launching in February. It's on a topic that I'm really interested in and I would absolutely love to work with her on this. 

My question is, has anybody worked on a PhD and an MSc at the same time? To be fair my masters is research oriented so I can see that there would be a lot of possibilities to accommodate this. Still it seems rather unusual and I would love to know if anyone else has had similar experience or has any advice?",5,2,11.289705436547045,GradSchool
Doing my qualification today.,"I was supposed to do in 6 months from now. But I had to speed up due to an exchange opportunity. The text and presentation are shit. My advisors sent corrections 10 p. M.  Yesterday. Wish me luck.

I sent the text one week ago. My advisors delayed the text review. 2 weeks ago I was talking to one advisor on the hallway when one of the judges asked me where was the text. Rsrsrs",2,3,11.472251732843342,GradSchool
Has anyone out there gotten masters level licensure in counseling and later gone on to a PhD in counseling or research?,"I'm just trying to map out different options before committing to a program. I'm applying for master's programs and figured I should probably get licensure out of it just in case I decide that a PhD isn't right for me. I've heard that some people do get a masters and later go on to get a PhD, especially in the case of low gpa like me. I was just wondering if there might be things to avoid, such has certain types of degrees, that might make it more difficult to get a higher degree. 

If it's relevant at all, I'm looking at working as a victim advocate or something within juvenile justice. It seems like a lot of those jobs in my area require a LPC, which I could get in a masters program.",5,1,11.231198492102601,GradSchool
To submit or not submit,"Hi all,

So I’m a first year grad student, and I have worked all summer writing for the NSF-GRFP. I am getting really mixed signals on whether I should submit this application this cycle or next (you have to choose, can’t do both.) I don’t have any publications, and I’m uncertain if I will by next cycle (ecology can make publishing slow if your field work is confined to certain times of the year). 

At this point I just have no idea what to do. 

Thank you :)",4,1,11.254798029139637,GradSchool
TA failure,"This is my first semester being a TA. I am a TA for a lower level course and today I feel like an idiot. A student came in for help to understanding an assignment. I try to keep up with the course material but as you can guess I have a lot of work on my own to do, and for some reason the assignments in this course are incredibly long. Usually students only ever ask me about their grades, how the class works, etc. But they had specific questions about the course material and the questions the assignment was asking and I could not answer anything because I don't really know the course material that well, so I could not do a good job answering the questions.  Anyway, they were quite mad at me and I am sure they are going to have not nice things to tell the professor.

&#x200B;

Just wanted to know what is your guys approach for TAing for a class they have never taken before/don't really know much about.

&#x200B;

Edit: I should have specify that this is an online class.",58,121,12.354612843954452,GradSchool
Masters landscape architecture student becoming too miserable to get anything done.,"Time for me to vent to some kindhearted strangers! Lately I've been too distracted by my own stress and unhappiness to actually get anything done. I keep falling farther and farther behind because I need to spend hours crying or lying on the sofa.  

To give some background: I'm about to turn 27 and filled with anxiety about getting older. I feel like I've wasted my life thus far. My goal has always been to devote my life to helping solve environmental problems. But my undergraduate experience was a massive fuck up. After that I did two americorps years, then worked as a tutor before coming to my current program. I thought this career would bring me closer to my goal but much of the course work feels irrelevant to what I want to do, it doesn't help that my department is largely dis-functional and run by a dictator of a program director. I also am becoming incredibly crazy from the amount of time I have to spend looking at a computer. 

My boyfriend (who is an incredibly supportive partner) and I have talked about how my mental health might not be strong enough for me to be a students this semester. But I have nowhere to go if I walk away. Part of the reason why I'm in this position is that I changed my major too many times as an undergrad and never really got anything out of the experience. Knowing that I feel like I should stick it our for another 20 months. But I also want out so bad that it's crazy. Where would I go if I left? Would I lose my TA job? It feels too late to start over, but also just can't stand it. 

tl;dr  Landscape architecture student, wants nothing more in life than to help repair the environment but has never really succeeded at anything and is losing hope.",1,2,11.44452025136186,GradSchool
"I'm sure this gets asked all the time, but does anyone have any 2 in 1 laptop recommendations?","Hey all, I have needed to get a new laptop for awhile, and now that I've started my PhD it's definitely time to just go for it. I think I want a 2 in 1 laptop, so that I can take notes on slides, and mainly so that I can annotate papers and stuff. 

Wondering if anyone has any laptops that they absolutely love, or if there's not much of a difference. Also in that same line any stylus recommendations would be great too. I'm leaning to picking either a Lenovo or an HP

Thanks!",11,1,11.411302658769268,GradSchool
Does anyone else find that they have a hard time remembering earlier courses?,"I'm in a 2.5 year Master's in Data Analytics program.

I had to take a semester off due to finances.

Then, I had two semesters where I had to take only 1 course instead of 2 because of scheduling.

This semester is really stressing me out, and I asked my adviser about dropping a class and she dropped me from it (I was just asking for information!). I've completed 7 out of 10 courses. I honestly don't remember the earlier courses much, and I'm finding myself so anxious I don't know how much I'm absorbing.

Is this just me? I honestly don't remember undergrad, like, at all now.

I just have this feeling this isn't going to work out or that I'll forget everything.",8,22,12.18127951062112,GradSchool
How did you get over the post-quals slumps?,,5,3,11.75946238099149,GradSchool
What programs do y'all use to design and present your figures/charts?,,19,6,11.939601269880379,GradSchool
Love Immunology/Microbiology but dont like the Research,"Hey all!  
   
Just a quick rundown to put things in perspective. I graduated with a B.S. in Microbiology and Immunology and Ive been working in a lab as a staff research associate for almost 3 years and I feel like its time to further my education. My lab is good, but I feel like its more on the processing/technician side and less so on the research.  


I'm looking at applying to an Immunology program to get an MS but I am not inclined to move further into a PhD or research. Frankly, I dont think Im smart enough nor do I like the off hours related to research.  I looked at an MPH but it looks like a waste as opportunities are difficult to come across and a lot of people Ive talked to said its kind of a waste of money. I still do like the concept of global health, disease propagation, etc. but I still do like learning the harder science behind it all and love learning about diseases at the microbio level . Any thoughts on how to proceed regarding grad school or career paths that kind of line up with that? Thanks for any input.",0,2,11.779508677287787,GradSchool
Midterm online!! (home Internet is not trustworthy!),"So our midterm is to be done online. It’s two hours long and It’s due this weekend and I’ll be away from my schools WiFi.  I have to settle to find a local spot with strong WiFi. I have really bad anxiety with this cause when I took an o line quiz at home one day my internet crapped out and the entire page messed up.  This can technically happen anywhere.  Like if there was a power outage or something.  There’s really no stopping that.  So I’m trying to take this exam at a place that has the best of the best internet.  I’ve searched some places and I really have only gotten places like Starbucks, McDonalds (24hr spots), other coffee spots, local libraries....  kinda freaking out here!  Where do you guys go to take your exams???",4,1,11.65043460321371,GradSchool
"I’m out of ideas on how to study and the counselor is at a loss as well, any ideas?","So I’ve never really found the sweet spot on a study technique. My undergrad approach which I refer to as throwing spaghetti against the wall is only making me burn out. We did establish that there are two ways that I seem to learn the best, going to a professors office hours to explain the concepts to them and small study groups. Well the professor that I need the most help from is not very into this whole idea of having a student take up more than 5 minutes of time and the study group is burnt out and not getting much done. I don’t retain well studying by myself. I read, make quizlets, test myself with the quizlets but it doesn’t stick. I find myself learning some, forgetting it after learning the next part and just getting stuck relearning things. I have carpal tunnel in both hands which is limiting my ability to just copy all the notes. You guys have any ideas? I’m at a loss.",6,5,11.979416084695194,GradSchool
Setting boundaries with collaborators,"I recently ended up in a situation where I submitted a paper that I independently wrote to my collaborators for their review over two years ago. They ignored my emails asking about the paper over the next two years, only to tell me last month that it requires significant revision. Fine. Only... they need a publication-ready draft in 6 weeks (regulatory documents expire then) and they’re not going to help write any of it, redo any analyses, or do any other coauthorship duties. I then gave them an outline in less than a week and it took them 20 days to provide me with feedback. I’m ready to tell them I can’t do it because I can’t realistically start from scratch and rewrite a whole paper independently in less than a month. Has anybody been here before? Any advice for navigating through this?",9,8,12.184936918028527,GradSchool
PhD Biochemistry program with no/minimal class or teaching requirements,"Hey everyone, I'm looking for a program with little to no class and/or teaching requirements. I just want to do research. Does anyone know of any programs like this? Thanks in advance.",10,2,11.936730899510007,GradSchool
I want to change my thesis,"I literally just started grad school this fall and have gotten a full one paragraph into my proposal. As I continue to do research I cannot stop thinking about how I don't want this to be my thesis. My thesis feels more like a review paper and I don't want it to be that. To be honest, I always wanted to do field work. The problem is I have no idea what I would change it to. Given that it's my first semester, I should be able to change it, right? Although I am a master's student.

 Have any of you guys changed your thesis entirely after starting?",7,5,12.219045714324823,GradSchool
NSERC - CGS/D successful applications?,"Hello, just wondering if anyone has access to successful NSERC CGS/D applications? 

I am working on mine and it is almost done but I would like to compare my formatting etc... 

Also - anyone that has recently received an NSERC have any advice? 

My background in is mining engineering, I have a very strong GPA, I received an NSERC URSA in my undergrad and I am just finishing an NSERC CGS-M before upgrading to a PhD... Any thing helps. I think we all know the anxiety related to funding, lack thereof and the lead up to these awards. Much appreciated & happy writing.",11,4,12.173050343954454,GradSchool
Personal Statement,"I am kinda freaking out because I sent in my application for Stern on 9/4, but when I looked back at the requirements I see that the header required me to put my name, birthday, essay # and page #. I must have overlooked this.

My essay only had the essay and my last name with the page number. Should I fix this and re-upload the essay if that’s even possible?",1,2,12.02508738099149,GradSchool
Which GRE score to send?,"I am applying as a CS major to grad school, I have two GRE scores which are somewhat similar. One is a score of 159 Q and 159 V and the other being 161 Q and 154 V. I know CS schools value quant scores a bit more, but I am not sure what score is better to send.  So which score is better to send?",2,0,11.869798029139638,GradSchool
Writer’s block/anxiety,"Anyone have any good tips for this. I found I had little problem writing at the masters level, but I keep on freezing up at the PhD level for assignments and papers.",3,3,12.126267936547045,GradSchool
Work and Life got in the way,"Work and life got in the way finally.. It finally happened. Writing a paper, I finally hit a wall. A month filled with overtime at work, work on weekends, and finding as much time as possible in-between to not only revise a paper, but rewrite it entirely. the requirements were well high. Very short paper of 30 pages, requiring 100 citations. it's due today. I have 15 pages written with only 30 citations. Not enough. Not nearly enough. And I feel like a total failure. I knew with taking this job that pays quite well, I'll eventually hit a wall with it. It'll be a choice between my PhD program and my job. I'm right there now at this crossroads.. I'm not sure what to do. I am considering dropping out now that I feel like the situation is completely unmanageable. I feel signs of burnout, and it started affecting my work at my job. That's the last thing I need to happen to me. Lose my means to pay rent, bills, and afford food.  This PhD program is starting to look like a liability. 

&#x200B;

Is it time to call it quits?",2,1,11.884821177287785,GradSchool
how to reach out to professors of potential advisor?,"I plan on applying to grad schools for next school year. I've done enough search where to apply and who I'd like to work with. 

1. I thought it would be a good idea to reach out to those professors, so they are more familiar with my background and what I'd like to accomplish. Is this a good idea? worth a try?
2. If it's a good idea, what's the best way to approach? I have a pretty good idea what I want to do research on, but I don't know for sure. 
3. If what they have been publishing aren't directly related to any of the researches posted on the official group website, what does that imply? 
4. Any suggestions or comments? 

&#x200B;

thanks!",1,0,11.891372103213712,GradSchool
"Masters directly after undergrad, or a year or two workplace experience before doing masters?","So I'm just about to finish my undergrad in Computer Science and Statistics. I've studies for 4 years now and should start applying for Masters courses.

My Masters would consist of only a full dissertation. I kindof have a few ideas for a research topic, but nothing really takes my mind. 

I am really keen to start working and earning some cash. Besides that, I'm interested to get some experience and see what it is like in practice.

So my question, so I work a year or two before doing my Masters( part time), or should I just get it over with now?",3,3,12.179531825435934,GradSchool
You ever just want to give up and go back to delivering pizza?,"I just had a rough meeting with my advisor. Turns out, my assumptions about the chemistry of the system were wrong, and the work I've spent almost a month on is almost meaningless. Also I have to redo a significant part of my analysis because I forgot to include an important element and I feel so dumb. 

Sometimes I think it would be better if I just went back to delivering pizza. Life was so easy, I didn't doubt myself 24/7. It's not hard to be good at delivering pizza. I even did the math, it wouldn't be much of a salary drop. I could make it work. I guess I need someone to talk me out of quitting to deliver pizza for the rest of my life.

Edit: thank you so much for your thoughts and encouragement! I'm feeling much better, and I realize I don't actually want to quit my program. I'm very blessed to be here, and generally things are going well. It's just a nice fantasy sometimes, reliving my glory days of pizza delivery, and sometimes I can get over stressed and over dramatic.",75,372,13.29801562173223,GradSchool
How do I open a .nbib file without paying for software?,Someone sent me a .nbib file. Zotero does not recognize. I don't have endnote or Mendely :(,2,1,11.977668399510009,GradSchool
Taking the GRE in 3 months...,"I am thinking of going for a M.A. in Sports Management or Tourism and Hospitality Management. I haven't taken an exam in years and am absolutely nervous about bombing it. I found a few books in the library that I will use to study and have been using these last few days but I feel like I may need a tutor to help me with Writing and Math. What online programs, apps, or tutoring services do you recommend for someone who is on a tight budget?",2,0,11.983131362472973,GradSchool
A cool vid on how to apply for a PhD in the UK!,,1,1,12.023108214324823,GradSchool
Why is writing a paper sooo hard. Aaargh.,"I'm not a fan of writing in academic style. Why can't I cut to the chase and just present my results ? The lit review is the hardest part since the concept is new and there's not a lot of similarities with work done in the field.
I'm just so not motivated to write. 

TLDR: Rant.",17,42,12.87340914025075,GradSchool
Committee meeting prior to qual exam,"Hi everyone,

I have a committee meeting set up for next week and my actual QE will be happening in November (no set date yet). A pre-qual committee meeting is not required in my program, so many of the older students have no experience and don’t have a ton of advice for me. My PI told me to prepare a presentation on the background info that led me to my aims, but don’t present the actual aims. This sounded pretty casual to me, but another friend in a different program told me that his was 1.5hrs and was like a mini QE. I am my PI’s first grad student, so I’m not sure if she doesn’t have a good grasp on what to expect at this committee meeting either. If any of you can offer me some advice on how to prepare/what to expect that would be greatly appreciated. Thanks!",1,2,12.19045775136186,GradSchool
Will getting a post graduate diploma improve my application for course-based masters?,Do admissions committees look down on candidates with a PGDip applying to a master's program of the same subject?  Wondering if it's a viable way to improve my chances at admission + gain preqs.  Thanks.,0,2,12.20752951062112,GradSchool
Spending money to attend a conference,"What are your thoughts on attending a conference that I have to spend a good chunk of my own money to attend (likely ~$600-700)? Our department provides $500 to first year grad students to attend a conference without needing to present a poster, but this particular conference is really expensive because it’s held at a retreat center (which also means lodging and meals are included for the 3 day conference).

Thoughts? 

It does sound both personally and professionally enjoyable- the schedule includes time for a hike and an evening fire under the stars :) Also my advisor will be there and it’s a pretty small conference (~130 people) so I could meet a lot of relevant people in the field. 

It takes place in early-mid November, so I have not found any options for additional funding with that short of a turnaround time :(",8,2,12.230284140250749,GradSchool
Name spelled wrong on first publication?,"I'm a first year PhD student and this past May I got published (Way down the author list) for a project I helped with at a summer internship back in 2016. I got a copy of the manuscript to review during the publication process, and I saw my last name was spelled wrong. I asked the PI from that lab to correct it, and he said he would fix it. Then I heard nothing until the final update that it was being published in Science Advances. Okay, cool. I thought nothing more of it. I was a very minor author and was very busy at the time so I didn't ask to see the manuscript again (Definitely should have, in retrospect.) 

Then today, I realized I couldn't find myself when I searched my name on pubmed. I did some digging, and found that the paper was indeed published.... With my last name still spelled wrong. Is there anything that can be done about this now, after it has already been published months ago? Also, how important is this misspelling in the larger scheme of things, especially since I will be getting married in early 2021 and am planning to take my future husband's last name, so any future pubs will have a different last name anyway?",5,2,12.254705436547045,GradSchool
How to know how I'm doing academically,"Hi all—I'm a first year PhD student and one thing I've found very surprising about grad school so far is how difficult it is to get a sense of how I'm doing as the semester progresses. I'm about five weeks in now and for most of my courses, I have only a very vague sense of how I'm faring. I'll do the readings (sometimes not all of them though—which I'm told is typical in grad school), write papers, do assignments, contribute in class. 

But I've received almost no objective feedback—even for assignments I've done. The only real numbers I've seen have come from weekly statistics assignments. Sometimes they're encouraging, sometimes less so. Meanwhile my advisor tells me we can't meet weekly for a while, and didn't even show up to what I thought was a scheduled meeting yesterday.

So I'm left parsing through my responses in class, wondering if the professor can tell when I don't understand something, or whether my contribution was valuable enough to vocalize. 

I'm just wondering if y'all had a better sense of how your semester is going academically, and how. In undergrad there seemed to be so much more documentation, so if you were on the wrong track there was a much greater chance of an early intervention. 

What I'm really worried about is being on the wrong track, or missing something important, and then not finding out until it's too late. Like many of you, I'm guessing, my funding depends on achieving a certain GPA. I've never been like a C student, but this stuff is really hard, and it's terrifying to think that getting a C could essentially kick me out of the program. 

Sorry—long message. Any feedback welcome. Thanks!",7,2,12.277622103213712,GradSchool
LOR,Is it a blessing or a curse if someone asks you to draft your letter of recommendation for them?,7,2,12.294913769880377,GradSchool
What are some successful job search strategies for jobs outside academia?,,3,1,12.144612843954453,GradSchool
Dual MS to PhD programs,I know of some friends that are in a dual program for masters to PhD but not for psychology. I am looking for any information on schools that offer dual Masters of Science to PhD in clinical psychology. Please let me know if you have heard of any programs that exist like this.,3,1,12.162506362472971,GradSchool
Using transcription services / software,Most of my meetings with my supervisors are done via video conferencing. This gives me the bonus of being able to record the sessions. I am considering running the video through a transcription program or service. Has anyone used one they have found user friendly? Can anyone make any recommendations?  Are there any cautionary tales to warn me about before I use a transcription service or program?,5,3,12.588420714324823,GradSchool
‘The way universities are run is making us ill’: inside the student mental health crisis,,50,279,13.673027195806304,GradSchool
First year physics student,"I am a first year physics graduate student at a relatively lower ranked university and I have been struggling the first 2 months.  I came to this specific university to work with a particular professor and came into the program pretty confident considering I went to a reputable undergraduate institute.  I am now feeling lost in half of my classes and am not sure if this is right for me.  Is this a common feeling for first year students or should I rethink my decision and just go for an industry job?  I am currently doing more work than other first year students since the professor i wanted to work with insisted that I started research my first semester (on top of taking core classes to prepare for qualifier exams which are required to become a PhD candidate and being a TA).  I feel like I have little to no free time due to the sheer amount of work given by professors and the amount of time I allocate for grading and teaching alongside research.  Apologies for lack of structure to this post as I am quickly writing it before getting back to studying. 

TLDR: first year physics grad student feeling overwhelmed with core courses, being a TA, and doing research.  Should I consider withdrawing and getting an industry job or is this somewhat typical of for first year students?",2,3,12.855573492102602,GradSchool
A bit of a garble about advisors after graduation and a small FYI,"I am 10 months out of grad school. I got out by fighting and clawing against a pretty rough advisor (fighting over edits (that he forgot he did) sabotage (his employees were told to do it) and poor understanding of the data and what we were trying to show (I’d say equal parts naughty here)).  

But I finally did it. It was bad enough that I left my field (but not science!) to find a job. He emailed me several times asking when I was going to publish, but I didn’t answer back. I hate his editing (he doesn’t actually read and then gets made later and makes you rewrite months of work on a whim), he made tons of promises he didn’t even come close to keeping, and then let others sabotage my lab space (not that it was secure enough for micro work in the first place...but that’s my mistake for not fighting it earlier).  He didn’t agree to let me graduate. That was another fight on its own. Luckily for me, every one signed off and I was able to get free. So like I said, rough but done. I did it. (Sorry for the rant, it’s things I can’t quite say to him yet haha)

10 months. Several emails “just checking in” on me unanswered because I am still dealing from the damage done. I have a job in a lab doing things completely unrelated to my field, but damn, money in the bank (seriously it’s still a bit lower then middle class but it’s more then grad school Hahahaha)! 

And then he sends an email letting me know if he doesn’t hear back he’s gonna publish my work (copy/ paste from my thesis) and add me as co-author.... with out input for how my work and data are used?!!

Whaaattt we didn’t even agree on what my data said and now were all the sudden publishing?!? 
Can he do that?!? 

How do I respond? He’s copied two people from my committee as well??? What the heck is going on here? I start to spiral back into the ridiculous unhealthy mindset that I had been healing from away from grad school. Freaking out- typing up really angry responses and deleting them- like over and over seriously not even sure what I am saying.

Then I remembered - I’m not alone!!! I called my undergrad advisor (super great full for ‘em) and said how the heck do I respond????

 He gave me some great advice- 
1. Unless you signed a contract saying he owns your work- he can’t publish your work with out proving he “couldn’t find you”. (I am certain this was his plan since I didn’t respond to his more buddy buddy emails). 
2. Don’t email back in the chain. The other people have a stake in getting the data published- they need to know that you can no longer work with your former advisor due to personal reasons. You can explain what happened to your data with out going into detail. (I didn’t find out about the sabotage until after I graduated when an employee told me about what they were told to do)
3. Call the other people publishing on this paper and ask them what they want to do about it. (Like, do they want to do the edits maybe so I can continue to write? Do they want to be the bridge?) 

I haven’t gotten to call the others yet. And honestly, my husband saw me pacing on the phone and handed me a drink...so I will do that first thing tomorrow. 

I just wanted to remind any one who might be in a similar bad advisor place that your not stuck, they don’t OWN you, and sometimes you might remember you have places you can go to for advice. (Even if it’s just reddit) just get thru the spiral. 

I know this was a bit rant-y, and it seems like it was all rough, but honestly the work was amazing, and I’m so damned proud of it :) I would love to do it forever, and some day I will find something in my field - so keep your head up! 

Long story short- grad school was f’ed up yo. But they don’t own you. Make sure you own your work- respond to emails- and work around the problems. Your not alone, enjoy the journey when you can. 

 Thanks for listening :)  enjoy your banana you filthy heathens 🍌🍌🍌",10,7,13.028443862472972,GradSchool
Financial aid for returning students,"Hi all!

I am currently unemployed and miss school immensely, so I am considering a grand return to academia to pursue my PhD. The problem is that...everything is incredibly expensive. I thought about retaking my Math portion of the GRE-expensive. I want to apply to a really awesome PhD program-app fee is ridiculous. Joint degree program? Forget about it; that's TWO app fees!

&#x200B;

Any advice or assistance on this subject?   
Note:  I looked up GRE fee discount waivers and am unsure I qualify since I'm not drawing unemployment.",1,2,12.820272566176676,GradSchool
Dealing with burnout/social exhaustion?,"I'm in the second year of an English program (M.A.) and I'm just exhausted. You know how it goes, grad TAs are overworked and underpaid. 

I teach two sections of writing, and teaching is suddenly taking up my whole life to the point where I feel like I don't have time or energy to do my class work and start my thesis. They expect us to teach these classes like a full professor would and yet I feel like I just don't have the time or energy, not to mention I keep noticing what other grad students are doing with their classes and can't help but feel inadequate. Grading takes up hours and hours alone, and making my own lesson plans (they didn't give us very much) on top of my own readings and such is just getting to be too much. Plus, every time I make a mistake teaching (which I know is inevitable and I shouldn't beat myself up) I just feel like a failure.

As I mentioned, it's hard not to feel inadequate when other student teachers are doing more work than me, because it makes me wonder why I can't force myself to work that hard. People around me will assign more work than I do and I can't understand how they have that much time to grade all that extra work. I just feel so tired and anxious which turns into frustration all the time. I can't stand the people who want to go on to PhDs because they have this air of smugness, like there's something wrong with me for not wanting my whole entire life to revolve around this stuff. I'm not the only one who feels this way, but talking about it with my classmates that also feel burnout just makes the burnout worse. I truly hate spending this much time on teaching because a) I don't want to be a teacher after this and b) I just want to get to the place in my life where I have a job with regular hours and a humane paycheck. What was left of my spirit is breaking. Anyone else feel this way?",1,8,13.149705436547045,GradSchool
Who has switched fields during grad school?,"Long story short, I had an abusive advisor for the first half of my MS. It got to the point where I was going to drop out of grad school completely when an opportunity to finish my MS in another lab came along. New lab is great. PI and labmates are wonderful and supportive. PI has encouraged me to stay for a PhD, which I am thrilled about. I just can’t help feeling like an absolute idiot most of the time because I have been immersed in a completely different type of research until now. 

Has anyone else gone through this? How did you “catch up” or make the transition easier? I’m making progress, but sometimes it’s difficult to accept where I’m at compared to the others (yay imposter syndrome)",6,2,12.89670775136186,GradSchool
My research was a step behind!,"Going to present my work to my supervisor & research team later today, but last night I found similar work has been published last week! So basically I feel my idea has been taken and I don’t know what I should I say later on my presentation! Please advise",5,6,13.23986747358408,GradSchool
Last semester blues,"Hey y’all. I’m struggling a bit lately. I’m going through lots of changes right now in my life, one of them being that I’m graduating in December with my masters. Additionally I just got engaged. Just moved in with my fiancé. Am applying for jobs. Going to class. Working on school stuff. Doing a full time 40 hour internship. Planning a wedding. Taking care of 2 dogs. Trying to have a social life.... the list goes on. I’ve struggled with anxiety and depression since I was a teenager. It has been well managed with medication the past 4 years. But as of 2 months ago I’ve just haven’t been feeling like “myself.” Obviously I’m not an idiot and I understand that the average person would likely be overwhelmed by all of these things... but I’m wondering if it feels worse than it actually is due to my depression or if this is normal. 

If any of y’all have some words of wisdom I’d appreciate it. I’ve been in school back to back since kindergarten so finishing grad school is obviously exciting but terrifying at the same time. So many unknowns.",2,2,12.95670775136186,GradSchool
Feeling a bit lost.,"Hi. I am hoping for a bit of advice from people who've been in a similar position. I'm partway through a PhD program and I just earned my MIP in the spring. I'm now facing the task of designing and fleshing out my dissertation topic and project, which just feels so daunting to me. I could pursue a similar project to what I used for my MIP, and just increase the scope, but it's not an area that I'm particularly interested in. I also would need to flesh out what that project's ""significant contribution to our understanding"" would be, and since it isn't something I care deeply about, that doesn't appeal to me at all. Unfortunately the university I chose doesn't have a specialist in exactly the area I want to study, which I originally thought would be a benefit to me since I would have outside perspective on things, but it hasn't turned out that way. My advisor is renowned in our field and is a really great professor, but as an advisor he's very hands-off. He's had some health issues lately and that's meant he's even more distant, which is hard for me since I feel like he expects me to be making progress on things when I feel too lost to even know where to begin on starting a project design. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

I feel frustrated with my university on a different level mainly to do with how the overarching structure has treated grad students. We are underpaid (I know, everyone's underpaid, but we make a good 5-8k less than most other people in my field, in an area with a pretty high cost of living) and the university bungled at least three sexual harassment cases \*that I know of.\* Those extenuating circumstances are making me even less willing to sink four more years of my life into this place for a career I'm not sold on.

&#x200B;

I don't want to be a professor, and my field doesn't have an ""industry"" option, so I'm basically looking at museum work or leaving the field, which honestly isn't that much of a conflict for me. I guess I just want to hear from other people who have had to deeply consider staying or going, and what made you choose what you did?",0,2,12.993721640250751,GradSchool
"Tired of professors, postdocs, etc. talking about much worse everything is now","Is this a problem at other schools? How do you deal with it?

It seems like every other conversation is about how shit the undergraduates are or how hard it is to find a well-educated PhD student or postdoc. I (PhD student) got into an argument today 2 postdocs and one of my supervisors - they insisted that education is getting worse (globally!) and made broad vague claims about much better things were 20 years ago and how in \[Country of Origin\] things are like this or that. No awareness that they probably sound exactly like people 20 years ago. One postdoc even started something with ""Its been proven"" so I said ""Send me the paper!"" But saying things like that makes no difference. I actually looked up a paper afterwards ([https://doi.org/10.1080/00036846.2013.868592](https://doi.org/10.1080/00036846.2013.868592)) which contradicts them but I won't send it because I don't want to be petty and even if you refute one point they just make it more specific into something you can't refute (""Yes well but at this university the math curriculum is certainly getting worse"") even if they only have anecdotal evidence. I don't mind if I'm wrong as long as they have actual evidence or even if they were genuinely interested in the education system instead of just shit talking.

I am looking for some sympathy and maybe advice (or critique of my perspective). I find it so frustrating and I don't know how to respond.",22,45,13.716684603213713,GradSchool
Where should I take math classes post-undergrad and pre-grad school?,"Hi everyone! I have a question.  I studied economics in undergrad and recently have been thinking about pursuing higher ed of some kind in Economics (preferably Ph. D).  I unfortunately didn't take as much math as I should have in undergrad:  I took Calc 1 and 2, Diff EQ, Intro to Stats and Econometrics, but believe I need to take multi-variate calc, linear algebra, and probably real analysis to have a shot at programs I'd like to get into.  

My question is: What is the best way to beef up my math curriculum over the next 1-2 years, pre-grad school applications?  For reference, I live in Northern Virginia and I'm in driving distance to both a large state school (George Mason) and a community college.  I'm also open to taking online classes.  I work at a public accounting firm during the week, so I pretty much only have nights and weekends free.  Any help you can provide would be much appreciated!!",2,1,12.908860529139638,GradSchool
"Do you track your hours? If so, how do you do this/any helpful apps or systems you use?","Basically says it in the title. Do you track the hours you spend working on your project? Do you show these to your advisor? 

If you do track them, how much detail do you go into? Do you have a set system/app/spreadhseet you follow?

Thanks!",1,1,12.925446177287785,GradSchool
Is getting a master’s as miserable as getting a PhD?,"I’m applying to a master’s program for I/O psych. Since I got a bachelor’s degree in psychology, I don’t really see any option for me other than to get a master’s degree. I joined this sub because I wanted to see what it’s like to be in school after undergrad- but honestly from this sub it seems like it’s awful. Are master’s programs less miserable than PhD programs? It seems like many people in this sub are in PhD programs. I guess I just want to prepare myself for the spring (assuming I’m accepted). I have no idea what  to expect. I feel really scared from reading posts here. I’ve been studying for the GRE since June and I was feeling excited for this, but like I said I’m just scared now.",21,3,13.181892936547044,GradSchool
What to ask to a potential research mentor when discussing about a project?,"I am a current PhD student and I am applying for a summer research intern. I am in talk with a potential mentor and we have decided to schedule a call tomorrow to talk about a potential research project. I am from a very small university and I seriously think that my skills might not be very advanced for a research project in a big research group. So I am kind of anxious about the phone call tomorrow. Also I am not very good at talking to people on the phone. So, What kind of questions should I ask him about the project? Or simply how should I approach this phone call. I do not have any experience regarding these stuff so any advice will be appreciated.

If it helps, my PhD is in Mathematics( specializing in Statistics), and the research project will be something related to statistics and machine learning.",0,1,12.95875636247297,GradSchool
Writing my SoP vs. Personal Statement,"Hi everyone, I'm procrastinating hard on these essays I need to write for the schools I am applying to for next fall. I'm hung up a bit on writing my Statement of Purpose letter. Most schools really only want one statement but I'm applying to UCLA and they want an SoP AND a Personal Statment. I figured I should start writing for this school first.

How should I approach writing these differently? They seem very similar so im a little confused. Any tips/advice is appreciated!",2,2,13.129161455065564,GradSchool
GRE Scores,"Hi, I am applying to a few MEng Software Engineering programs, and I just took my first GRE. I scored 164 on the verbal section and 158 on the quantitative. Should I retake the exam and wait 3 weeks to finish applying, or should I go ahead with my applications with my current scores?

Any advice would be appreciated. Thanks",2,0,12.985075806917417,GradSchool
Scholarships/aid for professional master’s?,I’m applying to a grad program in North Carolina (UNC Chapel Hill) and am wondering if there are scholarships/grants/other forms of financial aid besides the possibility of specific fellowships from the program. It’s a non-thesis based program (City and Regional Planning) and it would be super helpful if I could apply some outside aid besides potential loans to my costs. Any advice?,0,3,13.234647566176674,GradSchool
"Should I get grad school recommendation letters from old professors or ""professional"" coworkers","I'm looking to apply to grad school to obtain my masters in engineering and it requires 2 letters of recommendation. It states that these can either be from previous professors or current professional coworkers. I'm sure my professors would remember me as I did well in their classes. However, I think my coworkers (my boss and previous boss) would write very good letters. 

Which of these is preferred when applying to grad school? Does one carry more weight than the other?",4,3,13.355203121732231,GradSchool
Does emailing potential advisors during grad school application season works?,"I'm currently a senior and interested in going to grad school for math Ph.D.. I have read on other places that it's usually a good idea to email potential advisors at programs/schools that one is applying for. So I was wondering that from your experience, as a previous, current Ph.D. student or a professor, does it often result in good results if the student sends out a proper email and he has the relevant background? Also what can be improved during the process?

Thanks!",4,2,13.263536455065564,GradSchool
Losing your purpose in grad school,"Anybody else feeling this way? How to move past it? Send help, plz.",3,13,13.753941547658155,GradSchool
Weird decorum question (I'm a grad student/adjunct professor while working on my doctorate in history),"Hey everyone,

Weird decorum question that I've never really considered before but now it made me wonder if perhaps I was violating some unwritten norm. I'm 26 years old, and look like a college freshman based on my baby face (LOL), but I teach college freshmen in a history department. It's always a challenge to get their respect due to my lack of facial hair/the fact I'm also still a student of sorts/and my laconic sense of humor. I teach as an adjunct to make money/experience while working on my history doctorate at a school in my hometown in the south (while I'm still in 'school' in another state while working from home due to family health issues/etc.). I teach two late afternoon sections, and occasionally will do work in the school's predominantly undergraduate library well into the 2:00 A.M. closing time (because, you know, dissertation work is lengthy!). I have my own adjunct office but the history building gets *too* quiet at night and I feel more comfortable in a more crowded building to do work, and my own house is too crowded to focus much.  I walked by a study room in which some of my students were studying for my class's exam around 11:30-12:00 AM and answered a few questions when they asked me. I was trying to be helpful but now I realize based on the hour it feels as if some great barrier of propriety has been crossed, despite this being a public place. Am I overthinking? I don't want my students to feel like they can't approach me in public, but I also don't want them to think I'm just a 'buddy' to hang out with in the library etc.",9,13,13.784624418028526,GradSchool
ETS with a hilarious tweet this morning.,https://twitter.com/ETSInsights/status/1176516430520561664?s=20,68,188,14.39452025136186,GradSchool
PDF annotating app for iPad/Apple pencil?," I’m currently doing a lot of paper reading. Previously I would print out papers to read and annotate; now I’m trying to form better habits and I’d like to take advantage of my newly obtained iPad + Apple pencil. 

So far I’ve tried the Mendeley app, which I initially chose because I’ve used Mendeley in the past as a reference manager, and my library syncs across multiple devices. However, after trying to do some reading/annotating today, I found that I’d like to be able to actually write on the PDF with my Apple pencil rather than just make a sticky note. Are there any apps that would allow me to do this? I would be okay with separating the reference manager function from the annotation function (and just have 2 separate programs), but it would be very nice not to have to store the PDF files on my iPad. 

Free is ideal, but I’ll bite the bullet for a small cost.

Looking forward to hearing any suggestions, thanks!",5,1,13.219578121732232,GradSchool
Why PhD positions in the UK are almost never open to international students?,"I'm looking for a PhD position. I live and study in Europe but my country is not a member of the EU. Considering my interests, the UK seems like a perfect fit. Unfortunately, almost all the funded PhD positions available are available only to UK/EU students. My question is simply: why? I mean, every other country in the EU does not have this kind of restriction. No matter whether it's a graduate school or a single research group.",2,2,13.420168399510008,GradSchool
Feeling useless...," 

I just do not know what to feel...I had a horrible day and feel so insecure of myself and who I am as a person. I thought grad school was going fine but I just got an email from someone that told me to redo a test that I had taken because I apparently really screwed it up. Despite during feedback after my session they said I did a great job. I feel useless. I feel stupid, and every word in the book. I went through so much adversity to get to grad school and I just screwing everything up. Fuck....

To give bit a of background: I have really bad anxiety and depression when I get emotional from prior trauma. My anxiety in general has been terrible since starting grad school. I went to therapy for a year prior to starting grad school during my gap year in between my undergrad and had it pretty under control prior to starting my program, but I been going to therapy on and off for a couple of years, since I was in middle school. I was in two abusive relationships when I was in my undergrad; i.e. one was physically violence/sexual violence and the other was manipulative and controlling and attempt suicide to make me stay with him. After those experience I stop dating and focus on getting into grad school and I was able to get into a doctorate program after my undergrad, but I feel like I am just an impostor. I don't deserve to be here and everything I went through has damaged me to the point where I feel like I wont be able to to deal with pressure. I cant go to a counselor or psych clinic on campus because I am in the psychology department. Also my program is in a small town and I do not who to talk about this with.

How do I deal with this....I just keep feeling like I am just an idiot.",4,12,13.84281886247297,GradSchool
Econ PhD program selection for work in industry,"I’m fortunate enough to have been sponsored to pursue a PhD in Economics. I have just begun the application process. While I understand that Econ PhDs generally continue in academia or research, I was hoping to work in Finance, IB, or as a corporate economist. I am an Operations Research Analyst by trade, and have a propensity towards machine learning and data science. Does anyone have any insights regarding specific programs that are more tailored towards producing practitioners, or a way I can better posture myself (with respect to what programs I apply to/what I specialize) for follow-on employment in industry?

If I’m in the wrong sub, any direction would be appreciated! Thanks!",0,1,13.29639525136186,GradSchool
How to participate in a seminar when you don’t know what the heck is going on??,"I’m a first year PhD student in a STEM major. We are required to partake in seminars and will be graded based on our participation. Our seminar is tomorrow, and I’m trying to make sense of the article we’re supposed to read to no avail. How am I supposed to participate when I don’t understand the methods they used or the background of the project? Any tips on how to go about making sense of complex papers or how to sound like I know what’s going on during the seminar?",3,5,13.67383738099149,GradSchool
Did you prepare refreshments for your prospectus defense?,I asked several people in the department and some people have and some haven’t so there is no specific tradition established. I would like to prepare some coffee and maybe some scones. But I don’t want it to look like I’m bribing my committee either and also i don’t want them completely distracted while I’m presenting. Your opinion?,10,1,13.318756362472971,GradSchool
How do you feel with wanting to quit/missing home?,"How do you deal with homesickness/wanting to quit?

I moved to a new city by myself to start my masters (two year program). It’s about 2500km from home but not easy to travel back and forth (direct flights aren’t available so I have to travel to a different city’s airport, and the flights are expensive...driving/train/etc is not an option).

I lived in my home province all throughout my undergrad and it’s where my family, friends, pets, and partner are located (we’re doing LDR). 

The program itself is demanding but I know I can handle it. I like the course material so far, and have made friends in my program that I hang out with regularly. I also got involved with activities and groups within my department so I am kept busy and not isolated.

I’m adjusting to the city a bit and it’s okay here. Nothing is wrong, so why do I want to go home so bad? I don’t even hate it here, but I just feel so wrong about living in this city and being here. I’m terribly, terribly homesick— no one here knows about my hometown and it’s extremely different so it feels like I am trying to adjust to a new culture. Everyday I feel like I want to quit, not because I hate my program but because I hate not living back home. The thought of doing this for another two years is very difficult to comprehend. It doesn’t feel right and I want this program but I do not want to be in this city. 

How do you guys deal with the feeling? It feels like I picked out a new pair of shoes that were a good price and looked really nice but now I’m wearing them and they’re four sizes too small. When does this go away?",7,19,13.976927658769268,GradSchool
Scholarships for International Students coming to the States,"Hi, Much has been said about US and other students coming to study in Europe. What about scholarships for international students coming to study in the U.S.? What are some resources and ideas to explore, granted one already checked out the desired institutions and still need a lot of fin aid? Thank you.",11,9,13.837784140250749,GradSchool
Cohort hangout ideas?? (Los Angeles),So our cohort is planning a group hang out outside of school after the stress of midterms is over.  There’s 26 of us and I wanna throw out some suggestions.  Not just a bar or something typical like that.  We are also around LOs Angeles area so if anyone knows if anything different and unique that’d be helpful! Thanks!,4,0,13.18497164025075,GradSchool
"Are the Computer Science grad program in Universities of Auckland, Carnterbury and Waikato worth the time and money spent for grad degree?","What are the job prospects in NZ after completing the degree?

What are internship prospects during  completing the degree? 

Which of the three is better in your opinion and why? 

If I get into a grad program in a Canadian university like UBC or UoT- will going to NZ to either one of these instead be worth it?",0,0,13.369717010621118,GradSchool
Grad school can be very stressful and it can be hard to find the time/energy to go out all the time. What relaxing hobbies do you swear by on a rainy day?,"Over the last couple of years, I've realised having activities outside of your research and your department/cohort is really important to staying sane. Of course there are loads of sports and outside social groups you can be involved in, but sometimes you just want to stay at home by yourself and do some low-energy stuff. 

Personally: I tried out knitting recently. It's incredibly relaxing and fits the bill perfectly (for me). 

What de-stressing activities would you suggest to the new (or returning) students?",61,42,14.313906825435934,GradSchool
Masters in American Indian studies - Career Prospects?,"right now i am a junior going for a BS History with a minor in American Indian studies.

I'm finding that I'm really enjoying my Native American classes, so much so that I'm considering doing my historiography essay on the Dakota 38. I'm also taking Lakota language classes 

I've been looking at possibilities for a masters in american indian history.  the nearest college is Bozeman, Montana

I've heard that most who go down this lane tend to become teachers, and which I wouldn't be averse of course. others seem to become lawyers

However, does anyone have information on career prospects? I'd like to be involved somehow..perhaps a cultural liaison, help bring awareness and understanding.",3,4,13.785550343954453,GradSchool
Trying not to give up,"I have seven months before I graduate from my masters degree (6 if you take out going home for winter vacation and probably ending early in April) but I am struggling. I have had really bad anxiety and am seeing a counselor for it. While it has not affected my schoolwork it is hard to work through panic attacks and trauma without a support system. My entire family and core friend group is on the other side of the country - a 6 hour flight away. I want to push through but the next 6/7 months seem daunting in the shadow of my anxiety. 

&#x200B;

What advice would you give someone trying to push through.",8,12,14.100990158769266,GradSchool
Recommender asked for Letter of Rec mock draft?,"Hi all! 

&#x200B;

I was hoping if anyone had any experience with the above question. I went to ask a PI whom I've worked professionally with for the past year for a letter of recommendation for a Public Health grad program I am interested in. He said that his time at UBoston and Harvard-the formality was for the student to draft a mock letter of recommendation first as well as a CV. The recommender would then add/edit/change whatever and submit their final version 

&#x200B;

I've never had a recommender do this and I am not sure the most appropriate way to format this letter. Letters of Rec ""examples"" online vary in it's formality and content. Has anyone had experience with how to make a body letter for something like this? 

&#x200B;

Thanks!",5,6,13.921302658769266,GradSchool
Is changing PhD University frowned upon?,"Here's the thing. I'm into the first month of my Political Science PhD programme and I just received a better offer from another university. I would like to accept it for several reasons: 1) PhD students at my current university usually graduate in 6 or even 7 years, and I don't want to spend so much time in this country 2) the second university is better ranked 3) the second university provides good connections with think tanks, research centres in my area of study.

However, I am afraid that moving to another university would look bad on my Cv and damage my future research opportunities. What do you think?",4,0,13.61409201062112,GradSchool
"What are my chances of getting into grad school at UBC, UofT and UWaterloo?","So I realize these are best schools in Canada for Computer Science. I'm looking to get into one of those but I don't know just how it would go.

I want to apply to a masters thesis. 

My GPA is around 3.7 or an A-. I have some very strong recommendations from three PhD professors. One is an expert in AI, another is an expert in Operations Research and Operating Systems and the last one is a PhD in Economics who used to be the director of public education at my country. Got an 8 on the IELTS. 

I don't have any publications, I've never done research work. I do have work experience and I worked as a TA for one of my references. I don't know if that matters very much but there's that.

So do I have a good chance at those universities? Those aren't the only places I am applying to, but the are the ones that interest me the most.",5,1,13.687402195806303,GradSchool
I completely forgot about a HW assignment,"I'm in grad school now. I'm doing my best but I fucked up and completely forgot about an assignment for one of my classes. The syllabus says that no late work is accepted especially without a timely and appropriate excuse. Do I accept this and move on and try to do better or do I let my professor know that I screwed up and ask for another chance? I don't know what's appropriate at this level. Any guidance is really appreciated 'cause I'm kicking myself.

Update: I asked my prof after class if I could possibly turn it in late and he was super chill about it and told me to email it to him tomorrow. Thanks for your replies!!",7,3,13.989103584695194,GradSchool
Advisor Expectations for STEM PhD,"If your advisor asked ""what are your expectations from me as a PI?"" what would you say and why?",1,1,13.75821238099149,GradSchool
Do I talk to my PI about this?,"So... I finally mustered the strength and courage to get onto some anti-anxiety medication because I definitely think I needed it (yay better living through modern chemistry), but the adjustment period for these kinds of medications can take \~6 weeks. So that's 6 weeks of potential side effects that could impact my research performance... do I talk to my adviser about this ahead of time so he knows what's what? Or do I wait and just push through? He isn't an aggressively pushy guy by any means, and we seem to have a really good rapport, but talking to supervisors about mental health is always tricky :/",5,12,14.294335066176675,GradSchool
can't read unless printed out?,"I'm not sure if this is a thing but I can't read the papers books etc that I need to read unless I print them out properly, and this is stupid sometimes because some PDFs have internal hyperlinks that would allow you to click around within the document and PDFs allow you to Ctrl+F things.

But anyway, for people who also feel this way:

* what do you do with the documents you print out after you finished reading them, esp. when you have to move to a new place (across the country, to another continent etc.) 
* and what do you do with the notes you take 
* do you have a filing system
* do you try to train yourself to read on a screen instead of printing things out, why / why not?",8,7,14.156950806917417,GradSchool
How do I finish my paper while still not being done reading?,"I have a general sense of what my hypotheses are, the main papers that relate to my theory, etc.

However, I am not done with all the reading I wanted to have done by this point and I need to submit something by december.

Can anyone give me advice? I don't read or write as often and enough as I should so that's why I haven't developed strong habits yet. Thank you very much",3,4,14.151233214324824,GradSchool
"I'm an undergrad with a really REALLY bad transcript, how good (or bad) does grad school look for me?","Hey everyone, I'm in a bit of a rough spot. During my freshman year of college, I was sexually assaulted and as a result of me not having the best coping skills, I took a bunch of W's and a couple of straight-up F's in my sophomore year. I was able to get it together during my junior year but after the unexpected deaths of two loved ones, I took some more W's to lessen the burden of focusing on both school and my overall wellbeing. I have retaken all of the classes that I failed and was able to do grade replacements for them, and I received A's in all of the retakes. Currently I have like 12 W's, a major GPA of 3.75, and a cumulative GPA of 3.15. I expect the cumulative to end up at 3.3 by the end of this semester. I will be graduating in May 2020.

I don't plan to attend any fancy-shmancy institution, most likely UNM, which is where I'm already doing my undergrad. How screwed am I, and what are my options?

Edit: I am currently majoring in English and am thinking about either the English or Sociology grad programs.",8,1,14.029022566176675,GradSchool
Language habits for stress reduction,"I’m a STEM PhD student who is graduating soon. Here are some habits I’ve adopted to possibly ease stress, increase feelings of competence and combat imposter syndrome. I’m curious if anyone else has modified their language in a similar way.

1. Avoid the word should at all costs. Even if you made a mistake you don’t really need to chastise yourself for it. “Should” indicates there’s some standard that you’re failing to meet.

2. Don’t apologize unless you’re truly sorry and would go back and do things differently.

3. Don’t justify yourself unless necessary. 

4. I try not to say “I will do x.” How do you know you will do it.. you can certainly plan to do something but who knows what will happen. 


Not saying these are universal but I feel like they’ve helped me move  toward preferable narratives about myself.

Happy gradschoolin y’all

Edit: grammar, typos",25,208,15.104242473584081,GradSchool
"Screwed Up Really Bad, Need Advice","Background that may or may not be relevant:

A lot of stressful things were happened this past week; and a combination of that, very busy schedule, and the fact my pharmacy screwed up so I hadn’t taken one of my medications since last Wednesday, meant that I was a lot dumber than usual. I have to manage several mental illnesses and am currently in survival mode just trying to prevent a full blown episode.

The problem:
So because of the above, my cognitive skills are definitely suffering. At the same time all this is happening Im trying to complete a poster to present at a conference next weekend. There were a series of emails between my advisor and I were I made mistake after mistake; I forgot to attach a document, then I overlooked comments he made, then I didn’t edit the text right having read the comments. Just really bad and unprofessional and Im cringing as Im writing this thinking about it. 

My advisor finally got fed up and told me he is considering nixing the poster and not letting me present because Im “not taking things seriously.” I can’t even blame him. Without knowing the above context I really do look like a slacking a-hole.

I wrote him a sincere apology and explained some of the circumstances, (but left any mention of mental illness out.) I’m really worried that it won’t be enough though, and I’m totally devastated and angry at myself for screwing up and being so unprofessional. Is there anything else I can do to salvage this situation???",4,6,14.374219325435934,GradSchool
What makes a good grad student??,What makes a MA or a PhD a good student? How do people get those A’s? What are some tips and tricks you have learned along the way that you can share to help?,12,10,14.5331197883989,GradSchool
"Have you ever loved what you're learning on a conceptual level, but absolutely hate the bench work?","I'm in a genetics and genome biology program. And while I love what I'm learning about on a conceptual and theoretical level, I just absolutely can't stand doing bench work. Wet labs really fucking bum me out. No matter how intellectually stimulating something is, I just can't stand sitting in a lab pipetting things for hours, and it's not something I can see myself doing the rest of my life. I can't seem to bridge this disconnect. Has anyone else experienced this, and have any advice besides ""do computational work""?",28,44,14.913316547658155,GradSchool
Chem Grad Student - Need some grad student guidance,"Hey everyone, 

I’m in an interesting predicament and am hoping that you guys can give me some much needed advice! 

I’m a second year PhD student in chemistry. I am supposed to take a preliminary exam this semester to continue on to the next qual exam in the spring. After having been here for about 3 semesters, I’ve realized that research just isn’t for me. I’ve done really well in TAing and in my classes and overall things are going well except for the research. My PI is never around and I feel as though I am left to drown in my own project. With classes, TAing, etc. I don’t have all the time in the world to troubleshoot my issues and therefore I make zero progress on my project. 

So here’s where I’m unsure about how to go about things: 
In the handbook, it states that if you fail the preliminary exam “the student will be removed from the PhD program. The student may continue in the masters program.” So my question is, do I try to pass the preliminary exam knowing that I don’t want a PhD, or do I let a committee member know that I can confide in to tell them what’s going on? After this semester, I’m 11 credits away from a course work MS and am hoping I can go that route. I am funded with my TA job, and not sure if I’d lose my funding for the spring semester or not. Because I know I don’t want a PhD, I feel as though I am wasting my time and my committee’s time for studying for exams I don’t need to get me closer to my overall goal. 

I appreciate any advice that anyone could provide. This has been bugging me for awhile and I have no idea who to speak to or how to proceed from here.",4,2,14.373964695806306,GradSchool
I figured there would be some great advice here also.,,0,0,14.247483214324822,GradSchool
University of Virginia MSBA,"Does anyone here have any insights into the University of Virginia's MSBA program? Looks interesting but its also pretty new. Any information on program quality or what it is like?

[https://msba.virginia.edu](https://msba.virginia.edu)",1,0,14.24840914025075,GradSchool
NDSEG Research Proposal 2019,"Hi all,

I can't seem to find any information about this on the subreddit or elsewhere so I figured I'd ask. I'm a second-year graduate student looking to apply to the NDSEG graduate DoD fellowship. As most are probably aware, NDSEG has changed its site to [https://ndseg.sysplus.com/](https://ndseg.sysplus.com/) from past years. 

I would like to start putting together a research proposal for this year, and I have found a BAA number and interest in my topic, but I cannot seem to find anything about the length and/or structure of the research proposal. All I see on the application is ""Upload your research proposal in PDF Format using the following file name format: Lastname\_Firstname\_ResearchProposal.""

From past posts and past years, it seems that there is a 3 page limit, which is helpful, but it bothers me that I cannot find any information about requirements for this years round of applications.

Any experience with this or knowledge about something I'm missing is greatly appreciated. Thanks!",2,1,14.27631423284334,GradSchool
Any inaight would be appreciated,"So guys, I graduated with an undergrad in May. My second to last semester I started looking into graduate programs, i found one and a potential advisor i really liked. I emailed him and got prompt responses, i even met with him over 2018 xmas break. He is in a school in Canada and i was in Texas at the time. 

The meeting seemed fine. We talked about the program, and how grad school in Canada is different than in the US. He ended the meeting by saying to reach back out to him once i graduated and got my PR for Canada. Side note: he was looking at the computer screen and not at me when he said it, it felt a bit disingenuous, but i brushed it off.

Fast forward to may. I have my degree and PR for Canada. I email him and nothing. Its been 5 months and I'm going ahead with the application process. The dept head told me to tell him I'm beginning the process; so i send him another email. Nothing. 

Is he saying he doesn't want anything to do with me? Or is he maintaining distance for professional reasons? I'm really confused and anxious.",6,1,14.297471640250748,GradSchool
Advice For TA for Fresher,I'll be joining Masters program in Fall 2020. I heard that professors allow students from the second semester for Teaching Assistantship. Is there any way I can get the Teaching assistantship from the first semester?,6,0,14.32483275136186,GradSchool
Knowing what to do,"I’ve really been struggling lately about getting things done. Some background, I struggle from depression and anxiety and have been seeking help to get those under control

My real problem is knowing what to get done. I’ve treated the first years of my PhD program like I did undergrad, focusing on classes and such. This helped because there was a clear to do list throughout the semester with solid deadlines. 

Working on my own things have been more difficult. I try to make a to do list for both the week, month, and long term but even just starting those is paralyzing. I guess I don’t even know what I have to do. So how do you all get that started? Do you talk to anyone about what needs to get done or is it just something comes to y’all naturally. I wonder if this is an outcome of that anxiety.

Thanks for your help in advance!",3,1,14.338964695806304,GradSchool
"I messed up --- Dear Dr. A, Dear Dr. B, ...",Accidentally left the name of another guy in the email to a prospective internship PI. Can I fix this?,5,2,14.553825806917416,GradSchool
Who here works full time? Can you talk about your experience?,"Hi all, 

I have both an MA in anthropology and an MHP. With two masters degrees, I have been working in an organization I wanted to be in but have found an increasing interest in the policies that are related to my two subfields. I am thinking about going back for a PhD in Public Policy, but I am worried about additional coursework because my masters degrees are not policy related. I have talked to multiple people who have started a PhD while working full time and all encourage me to go ahead and apply. FWIW, I found my other graduate degrees to be enjoyable and motivating. I worked part time, had an internship, and had an assistantship and never had to pull an all nighter. I'm just not really sure what to expect.",1,1,14.403223955065563,GradSchool
Devices for reading on the go?,"I spent a considerable amount of time traveling (but not driving, so I'm free to work), but my laptop is too big to open in most places, and my phone is too small. I want any device where I can read papers and annotate (highlight and add notes--these don't need to be handwritten; the kind you do in GNOME's PDF viewer is fine), ideally pretty cheap. Suggestions?",6,2,14.633964695806304,GradSchool
Directionless,"For the past couple of months I have just felt directionless. Progress is halted to a zero. I have results, but all negative results showing progression on the project is not likely. I have talked about being miserable about this project with my P.I. but every time she says stay with it a little longer. I give an academic progress report to committee in the upcoming weeks and just don't care if i pass and stay in the program. I like my P.I., but she is new and just don't feel like there is a tone stability with her changing her mind a lot. I just feel like im in a funk, and cant get out; i was wondering if anyone has any experience in this?",10,37,15.362529510621119,GradSchool
Tips on best way to work towards becoming a professor?,"Future grad student here.

After a couple years in industry, I’ve decided that I will most likely prefer a career in academia over this. Obviously I haven’t started my graduate program yet so I may come off as naïve, but assuming I still want to be a prof in the future, how would you guys recommend I approach grad school? Normally? Focus more on finding project ideas? Etc.
I’m no stranger to working day and night consistently and I fully expect to have to bust my ass off, so if possible, are there any helpful tips other than study/work hard?",3,2,14.795585066176674,GradSchool
"That’s my secret, I’m always anxious- the credible hulk",,0,1,14.651267936547045,GradSchool
I got an email today,"I have never been the smartest kid in the batch, since middle school - I was decent. I barely got into one of the better undergrad schools for chemical engineering in India. I did not like what the curriculum had to offer. In my school, we did not have the option of taking courses from other departments even if you have the acumen or are interested. I wanted to do computational bio, so I started learning stuff on my own and applied for REU fellowships and when I was in sophomore year, I bagged a prestigious fellowship from the Govt. of India. I started believing in myself more.  
After undergrad, I joined Penn State for my PhD where I was super happy to work on computational biology. Again, since I had no prior formal training in neither computational science and biology, my progress was very slow. My advisor isn't the best person to be with if you are a slow learner. I had to digest numerous humiliating one-on-one meetings for being slow. I knew I am getting there, but he would be the last person to buy that. I started putting in more hours and started talking to more students to broaden my knowledge horizon. Last year, I ended up publishing in a top journal after working out a problem for three long years. I am a sixth year PhD student now. I want to stay in academia, so I started applying for post-doctoral positions in several universities. My advisor initially had said that he would forward my applications to some of the good labs, but now insisted I submit a certain manuscript before I apply anywhere. I got some interviews after 50 applications or so.

&#x200B;

Today I received an email. It read - "" We would love to have you join us and contribute in our computational protein design efforts at the xxx lab at Harvard Medical School "". I am really happy after a long long time. I am about to defend in a month now.",39,581,16.20327025136186,GradSchool
"Ex-supervisor who was abusive towards me, our relationship ended on a very bad note, and due to this am needing to take extra time in program- died suddenly ... having really difficult time processing.","Hi all,

My ex supervisor died suddenly last week and I’m having such a hard time coming to terms with everything. 

I got into my program to study something very specific that I’m super passionate about and she was the only person in the dept that did that research. I was accepted into my program with her and I was over the moon and so thrilled to start research in my passion. I stayed with her for 2 years and it was awful. I learned very quickly she had a severe alcoholism problem and because of this was extremely abusive and could not perform her duties. 

She would call me in the middle of the night yelling at me about an abstract or draft she thought she asked me to do (which ofc she didn’t). She would dump all her work on me and my lab mates and take credit for it. She would spend almost all meetings taking about herself - so nothing got done or delegated. She came to campus drunk and told many times to go home. She would have a lot of falls and accidents because of her alcoholism and thus very flakey and was inconsistent on coming to work. We were all yelled at repeatedly because of how disorganized and awful things had become and deadlines were legit the next day but she would forget about them and force us to work all night to get things done. 

I called it quits when she forced me to take on multiple honours students to work on their projects when my own work was no where not even on her radar by yelling at me me “you do whatever the fuck I tell you to do” this was the last words I heard from her while walking out the room. 

This was a year and a bit ago and I had to restart with another supervisor, which meant that I had to give up my research passion and do other work. It’s going fine because my supervisor is great but knowing I’m not pursuing my passion because of her still eats at me. 

We all got an email last week informing the dept that she had died suddenly by falling and hitting her head. 

This is shocking and so sudden. I don’t really know how to feel. I feel sad that is how she went and that she had such severe issues that she couldn’t address properly. I’m sad her legacy in the end was of an alcoholic who most of the students poked fun at and gossiped about because of how abusive and awful she had become. I’m sad that we never got a chance to repair our relationship but it’s also so complex because I still feel wronged by what she did. I’m sad for her kids now now don’t have a mom. But I’m sad for her that she couldn’t get better that she was suffering that much. I just hope she’s at peace now but I’m still feeling so conflicted.

Has anyone been in a similar situation? Not even with a faculty but someone you know that died but you had a bad relationship with?",4,4,15.015469325435934,GradSchool
just another sad post.,"I've had to change the focus of my thesis so many times. it's my 4th ""narrow it down"" try right now. I feel stupid, I feel dumb, I feel like I am one of the few people in my MA program that doesn't know what to do and at this point I'm too ashamed/embarassed to ask for help.

it's not the first time that I've had this problem: I am constantly being told that I am too unfocused in my writing, that I mention 5 different mildly interesting things, when I really need to focus on ONE and go IN DEPTH with it.

I had submitted my introduction and part of my second chapter to my thesis advisor and was told how derivative it was, it wasn't an original idea, etc. They said it in a fairly nice way; I know they're trying to help. But I am just SO tired of writing and rewriting and I am worried that I've gotten to the point where I don't want to write anymore.

I am in a 2 year program that, due to some problems with the program itself and what feels like my own incompetence, I've had to stretch to another semester. With these rewrites and new ideas, plus rewriting most of what I already have, it might have to stretch to another year, not just a semester.

I am upset.",3,4,15.16483275136186,GradSchool
Changing Fields -- Certificate to Masters?,"So I am a prospective ""older student"" who earned a B.A. in Film/Video in 2007. I am now interested in changing careers and going back to school. I have been talking with a local school about entering their Environmental Conservation program as a 2nd bachelors. I am planning to start taking a couple pre-reqs for the program that I didn't already have (Precalc, Chemistry, GIS). 

However, someone brought up to me it might be a better investment of my time to earn a post-baccalaureate certificate instead and apply to a masters program. I know going from art to science is a big jump. I am wondering if anyone has experience changing fields this way and applying to a masters program with a certificate vs. a bachelor's in the proper field? Do graduate schools accept this generally?",0,2,15.035330436547044,GradSchool
Are you ever so burnt out you misread something?,"My professor posted 3 prompts for our upcoming paper. I read them over, thought about it, read it over again and decided on one. I posted it below. 

>To what extent do the scholar seem intent upon stressing continuity in the face of changes to the lives in worlds of Native Americans?

While brainstorming and trying to think of a thesis sentence, I asked a classmate if she thought my argument about stressing the importance of community because it showed X, Y, Z and she responds ""sure but make sure you discuss the continuity of it too""

What? What is she talking about?

Well... Turns out this dumb dumb kept reading  ""continuity"" as ""community"". And I read each prompt over like 3x 🤦🏻‍♀️

Time for a mental break.",1,4,15.192390621732232,GradSchool
My advisor hates me: a rant,"Mostly the title says it all. I'm in the 5th year of my 3-year MFA (terminal degree in my field). I had to take time off because my fiancé became disabled and we couldn't afford to eat, let alone fund my thesis. This is my first time at a private institution, and it turns out they aren't very good at dealing with students on food stamps. 

My program is small. 2 students per year small, and I was the only one admitted my year. I am not the type of personality my advisor likes. She is insanely skilled, but she and I simply do not operate the same way.

I was told by a predecessor to watch out because she usually picks a ""scapegoat"" to despise, pick on, and generally make their life hell. Turns out its me. From someone who I expected to be my mentor, I got...I don't  know. I'm going to have to unpack it in therapy.

She is not only my advisor, but the only advisor for the program AND the head of the program. She is the head of my reading committee. She has the final say on whether or not I get my MFA.

Anyway, this is my writing warm up before I dive into working on my paper for the rest of the evening. I'm not going to let that bitch win without a fight.",5,2,15.057714695806304,GradSchool
"My grad school journey up to this day, abridged","Bottom line: I believe that everything is part of God's plan. If you're not religious, this may sound silly to you, but I don't think there's another explanation for how everything worked out.

Prologue: I came into grad school wanting to do analog design. As an undergrad, circuits and electronics were my favorite thing ever. My GPA and GRE scores were terrible, so I knew that the only way to get into the program of my dreams was to have a professor accept me as a PhD student. That professor was my advisor. He was so cool, it seemed, despite me not having research experience or relevant industry experience.

Chapter 1: I was so happy to be learning the fundamentals and getting some exposure to research. My advisor was a much more serious guy than when we first met, but I think it had to do with the fact that now it's strictly business. I was working, learning, taking classes, he'd remind me to focus on classes, and things were okay.

Chapter 2, part 1: 1.5 years in, my advisor put me on a serious project midway through the fourth semester. I was already drowning; I had two *heavy* classes (that he told me to take), and I was also his TA. On top of that, my husband was having some weird health issues (he's infinitely better now, thank God). On top of that, I lacked the necessary background for the project. Thus came constant scolding, belittling, and I became so numb to his anger that it wasn't affecting me anymore. On top of that, I was not motivated (he never motivated me; he would discourage me), and I felt like I had zero direction. Any idea I had on top of that, he would dismiss. ""That's irrelevant."" ""You're distracting yourself with this."" ""This isn't publishable material."" ""That's not a contribution.""

Chapter 2, part 2: Once the semester ended, I was able to focus more on my research. There was a big gap between where I was and where I needed to be, and I was trying *hard* to close the gap. However, the project's speed didn't stop for me (very understandably so), and the professors have already devised an idea. So at that point there was not much that I could do other than optimize what they already had and implement that on chip. My advisor would tell me, ""You're not being a PhD student; you're being a technician."" ""You are expected to come up with your own ideas instead of waiting for us to tell you what to do next."" ""You are just doing what you are told."" ""You don't need the label of a PhD student if you're doing what a technician would do."" ""If I can do in an hour what you're doing in four days, why am I asking you to do it?"" Although he's technically in the right, it's not exactly helping me that he keeps dismissing my ideas and I can never meet his unrealistic expectations of me. I'm not a genius. I don't have decades of industry experience. I will always be lagging behind in some way. He also said ""At this rate, I don't see a PhD happening with you. You can always do an MS and make a minor contribution. There are still as many jobs.""

Chapter 2, part 3: I was a fool to think things were going to get better. In fact, after I submitted the tapeout, he said ""Your contribution has been minimal. This is not the contribution of a PhD student. I don't want to completely dismiss you; I want to talk about some options first. You can still work on this project, but I will only continue to support you if you become an MS student. You can also do an MEng, which is still an advanced degree. You can also continue your PhD under a different advisor. Either way is fine with me. So, think about it, and let me know. Consider this final block for this project your last chance, and it can be your MS thesis."" It's clear my advisor doesn't believe in me. So I thought, ""I can just get my MS under him and continue my PhD elsewhere."" But I don't want to deal with him much longer. And I didn't know who to turn to.

Chapter 3, part 1: My friend had his prelim last week, and his friend had pretty much the exact same experience. I call that guy my guardian angel. Then he told me who to go to and why to go there. So I took his advice because my current advisor is a jerk and I don't see a fruitful future in academia if I continue in analog design. For the latter, here is why. To publish a paper in analog,

1. come up with the circuit/technique
2. simulate it and change it until it works with the results you need
3. lay it out
4. pass all fabrication checks (DRC)
5. pass the comparison between layout and schematic connections (LVS)
6. simulate the layout extraction (post-layout sim)
7. change the layout until you get the results you need while not violating any of the DRC/LVS checks
8. send the chip for fabrication and wait for them to send it back to you (in my case, it takes 6 months just for fabrication due to the BiCMOS process)
9. design the PCB
10. send the PCB over for fabrication and wait for them to send it back to you
11. once you get the chip, send it out for dicing/packaging (they bond the pads to the pins) and wait for them to send it back to you
12. send your chip with your PCB to a facility so they can put it together and wait (or DIY but the former is recommended)
13. get the measurements from the lab
14. start writing the manuscript

After that, you know what's next. But steps 1-13 altogether take *at least* a year. In a year, I could be publishing new ideas! The analog program here is tailored more for the industry, not academia--and if I wanted to work in the industry, I would've gotten my MEng and gotten out of there. I want to use this opportunity as a PhD student to start building my CV *before* I graduate, not after.

Chapter 3, part 2: My research interests for that reason have taken a divergent path into KLJN electronics. I talked to the professor my guardian angel recommended, and he is actively doing research in that area, it turns out. He accepted me as kind of a refugee PhD student, so once this semester is over, I'll be working with him. I talked to my advisor about this and he took it very well; the only things he needs from me before we part ways are the converter and the report. I also wanted to make sure I wasn't making the same mistake; my future advisor's students are happy to work with him, he works actively with his students, and he is super encouraging. I could be wrapping up with an MS thesis, but I don't want to deal with my current advisor for longer than I need to.

TL;DR: Because of my present and future, I made big decisions.",2,5,15.269358214324823,GradSchool
Help please!,"I am an undergrad looking into grad school and I have two questions. Is doing your undergrad and graduate work at the same school truly bad and second, Is it worth it? I have some doubts which I have never had about grad school so I am struggling right now.",3,0,14.954473955065565,GradSchool
Weak mentorship...,"Holy shit. How do you all deal with this?
Words of strength appreciated. 
Sorry for the vaguepost.  At the end of my rope most days, but especially today.",9,0,14.969728584695192,GradSchool
Reading and taking notes on papers,"Hi r/GradSchool

I'm looking for a way to improve my reading experience. Right now I'm using Mendeley to organize all my papers but I think the notetaking and highlighting are not good enough to memorize everything that I read. I've tried to make notes using the build-in notes tab but then they are searchable. Also, it quite hard for me to keep track of a reading list and a must-read list, the built-in feature to me is not good enough (that green singn)  
I was wondering, what do you use to read papers and take notes? What's your workflow to read and take notes and make sure you keep all the information well organized and easy to search? Also what do you do to make sure you remember everything you read.

I've heard about Paperly which I think is a pdf reader and note-taking app oriented towards researchers, anyone has some thoughts on this app? Is it nice and worth?",1,1,14.978929973584082,GradSchool
Teaching tips and tricks?,I'm teaching a portion of a course (first year) for the first time this year. Just stuff like scientific writing and basic data analysis/excel skills. Wondering if anybody has any fun exercises they like to do with students? I'm also looking for specific direction on how to explain what goes in a figure caption...I don't quite grasp how students don't understand!,0,1,14.979473955065565,GradSchool
Almost done with my qualifying exams. Suggestions for when I'm done?,"I'm posting today because I'm now finished with three of my fours qualifying exams for my PhD candidacy. I think I did ok on the one I took today. It took me almost the entire four hours allotted and I wrote nearly thirteen pages. I have one more exam on Thursday. I'm almost done. Whether I pass or not, I've almost gotten through it. I've had so many breakdowns and panic attacks this semester while preparing. It has been so rough.

This weekend I want to do something just to celebrate finishing, even though I won't know if I've passed for a few more weeks. I would love some suggestions!",6,2,15.154450806917415,GradSchool
Does anyone know of any ways to get assistance for PhD applications?,I am starting my applications for sociology PhD programs and I was wondering if anyone knew of ways to bring down application fees other than asking programs individually. I know of a few programs that encouraged woman to go to business school by helping pay for applications are there things like that for woman in social sciences specifically sociology?,3,1,15.00920775136186,GradSchool
Debating whether I should transfer between undergrad Universities,"So right now I'm a first year student at Texas State University majoring in Computer Science but I'm seriously considering a double major with Chemistry because I want to do computational research. However, I kind of want to try and transfer to Texas A&M for fall 2020, but if I do so I would have to minor in chemistry rather than major. So I'm wondering if I apply to grad school, would if look better to have two degrees from Texas State, or a degree with a minor at A&M?",1,0,15.07483275136186,GradSchool
How to respond to edits?,"Simple question: When you get a paper back from someone with ~~crossout~~ /replace style edits, what do you do besides accepting their replacement text?

This question is inspired by the anxious feeling that I haven't done anything when ""responding to comments"" besides clicking ""accept revisions"" over and over.",2,2,15.249265621732231,GradSchool
What's a normal writing speed for y'all?,"If I have all the research already done, I can pretty consistently do 5 pages, double spaced, in 3 hours. That seems pretty slow to me, though, and I wondered how quickly you all could turn around 5 pages.",5,1,15.155214695806306,GradSchool
Stipend Tax Question,"I'm a first year PhD student in MA, and I noticed my first few paychecks did not have any taxes taken out. I'm putting aside about a third of the payment amount for when Uncle Sam comes knocking in April, but I'm worried I'm not putting aside enough (I don't understand finances for shit--that's why I'm a scientist lol). I tried asking my University already, and apparently they are not allowed to give any kind of tax advice whatsoever. I was hoping for some guidance from people who have been in this situation before, so I don't end up owing come tax season.   


Thanks in advance for any replies!",5,2,15.345469325435936,GradSchool
Budgeting for Grad School,"Hey guys! I'll be moving for grad school to the UK (MSc. Marketing & Strategy). Even though I am yet to hear back from the universities, I am confident I'll get in...so, I decided to come up with a budgeting scheme in order to have a smooth transition into the whole thing.  I was wondering if you guys could help me take into account things I may have missed or estimated lower than I should.

Course: MSc. Marketing & Strategy

Duration: 1 year

Possible Locations: Coventry/Glasgow (depending on where I choose to get into)

Adjustments-

1. Taken highest tuition fee of all the universities i've applied to. 
2. operating under the assumption that no scholarship has been received. 
3. calculating for a period of 12 months. 

I request you to please help me consider any other unexpected costs that may crop-up as an international student, irrespective of whether it's a recurring or a non-recurring expense.

&#x200B;

|Particulars|Amount (GBP)|
|:-|:-|
|Flight tickets form home home country (one-way)|400|
|Insurance & Visa|1850|
|Tuition fee (assuming no scholarship)|28500|
|Exam fees|180|
|Winter wear|500|
|Food (190/month x 12 months)|2280|
|Commute (50/month x 12 months)|600|
|laundry/ stationery/toiletries (50/month x 12 months)|600|
|Telephone & internet (40/month x 12 months )|480|
|Entertainment (120/month x 12 months)|1440|
|Utilities (excluding telephone & internet) (40/month x 12  months)|480|
|Rent (170/week x 52 weeks)|8840|
|Books|400|
|Laptop + phone (including student discount)|3757|
|UK Travel|1000|
|Total|51307|",4,1,15.213270251361859,GradSchool
What skills do you wish you worked on before you went into grad school?,"Any discipline, but I’m looking at going for a masters/PhD in chemistry and wondered if anyone had any advice/warnings.",44,44,16.25406886247297,GradSchool
Springer Journal Viewing and Approving PDF,"This might be a very dumb question but I would love if somebody could please put me at ease.  


I have just gone through the process of submitting my first paper to Springer. The ""build PDF"" automatically took place and now I'm supposed to view it and approve it. I have included my main tex file properly named and as ""manuscript"". When I view the PDF however, it is just the raw tex file. I'm not sure if this is intended or if it's supposed to automatically generate the PDF like when you download PDF straight from Overleaf. I'm not sure if I'm approving my tex file or if something went wrong with the compiling.  


Thanks very much in advance",3,2,15.695585066176674,GradSchool
Switching Dissertation Topic,"Hi Scholars...

Well... After 4, yes 4 back to back terms of working on my prospectus, I have decided to abandon the project and change my chairperson because I just couldn't get past the initial phase. The kicker is that I am forbidden to take any of my work, or even address a similar topic with anyone else since the first chairperson claims this is his intellectual property. This is extremely discouraging... Has anyone else had to do this? Any advice?",1,4,15.902865158769266,GradSchool
Goodhart’s Law: Are Academic Metrics Being Gamed?,,1,8,16.090098955065564,GradSchool
Contacting potential advisors before applying?,"Ok so I've been told that one of the best ways to get into grad school is to contact a potential advisor. This way you've got someone on the inside rooting for you.

Well, I'm not really sure how I would do this. I'd be an international student to Canada. I don't have research experience. I am applying to masters' degrees with thesis options to several universities.

My profile is pretty good, I've got good grades, letters of recommendation from two PhDs, one an expert in AI and the other an expert in Operating Systems and Operations Research. I've also got a letter from an Economics professor from another university, he was also the director of public education in my country.

However, I'm not entirely sure what to say, I could mention those people, but it seems to me that's more for an admissions committee than for a potential advisor.

I would appreciate any advice how to go about this.",5,1,15.714022566176677,GradSchool
Caught in an endless loop of aimless reading - Please help!,"I am completely dumbfounded how hard it is to stop reading every goddam paper even tangentially related to my research project. And then I don't manage to write anything down so it just becomes a massive waste of time. At the end of it I always feel like shit, even though it feels productive in the moment. I end up with a larger vocabulary and thats it.

What can I change about my mindset going forward to avoid wasting time in this manner? 

Right now I feel like my current task is so poorly defined, but I know that the overall goal is to find a model that can output a spectral function that has qualitatively similar features to experimental data. All the other recent papers have used models similar to mine and haven't gotten remotely close to replicating the experimental data. 

 I guess what I'm doing I'm just frantically searching for any hints for a new model to try that might get me a bit closer. And this is all before I have even done one start-to-finish computation of that spectral function (still don't really know how to do all the steps or even what they are, which is another thing I'm trying to shove into my brain). 

&#x200B;

AHHHHH",0,3,15.993617473584083,GradSchool
Drop out or stay MS in Forest Resources Management,"So I'm currently 5 weeks deep in my masters program at an esteemed forestry school. Full tuition scholarship and very generous stipend. 22 years old and fresh graduate with a dual degree B.S. Geology and B.S. Geographic Information Systems with honors. I wasn't too sure what I wanted to be doing after undergrad and applied only to this program and was super excited by the opportunity. I'm paying nothing to go to this great school and get this degree. I've already been told what my thesis will be and it's fairly interesting but I am struggling to invest. The content isn't an issue and I'm not struggling too hard to comprehend anything. I'm really just struggling to invest in being here. Nothing seems super appealing and I'm wondering if maybe I just enjoyed the idea of this degree more than anything. I'm sitting on assignments and doing everything last minute instead of in well structured time because I just can't force myself into making a true engagement or investment of the work. I really don't know or think that I want to be a forester which it seems that everyone in this degree wants to be. I would much rather work in planning and policy and I had previously told myself that this would be my avenue to the more environmental oriented careers. 

I've been riddled with anxiety since I moved into my apartment. I'm signed into my lease in this city and living with two undergrad friends but I just don't know if I'm happy here. I previously withdrew from this school in August starting my freshman year and I have been excited about returning to finally get a degree from here. I'm just not sure what to do and am currently sitting on the fence 50/50 about whether to withdraw or stay. If I withdraw I would be looking for a job to pay off my $25,000 in undergrad loans and then to pay for this rent somehow if I can't find a sublettor. I guess I'm really just searching for advice or if anyone has a similar story.",4,1,15.872228584695193,GradSchool
Study music,Need some Spotify playlists. Things that don’t sound like too familiar if songs cause I end up singing them in my head.  I got a lot of reading to do and I need to focus,3,2,16.042089695806304,GradSchool
I am really struggling in my MA - please help.,"Hey everyone. I am a first year MA student studying Social and Political thought. I am 4 weeks into the program, and I am really struggling with all of it. 

I am finding that even though I do all the readings, re-read the readings, make summaries, and lists of questions, I always feel 3 steps behind. I feel lost and honestly stupid in comparison to my classmates. I am trying to participate in discussion and seminars, but I feel like I am always just missing the point that the professor may be making. 

I have also been having a hard time balancing the work load, with a regular job, my volunteering, as well as my life (ie taking time to myself, I haven’t had any time for the gym or for food prep). It’s been taking a toll on my mental health, and I haven’t been sleeping well as a result. 

These feelings have made me really overwhelmed, and reluctant/not enjoying doing the school work. They have pushed me into a bit of a slump and they have made me feel like I am not going to succeed. I have been genuinely questioning if I even want to do this for my life, or what it is I even want to do. 

Can anyone please help me with how your survived this? How did you managed to do the readings in that ‘masters way’ and not just the undergrad regurgitating information way. How did you stop feeling like you were always behind/possibly failing even though you’re doing your best?

Please help. I am honestly considering dropping out. I am really suffering here.

Thank you.",3,3,16.140122103213713,GradSchool
What do you think of professors that ban laptops in classes?,"I'm in a master's program. One of my professors said that if we want to use laptops we need to sit in the back to not be distracting, which kind of made sense...it was more of a hand notetaking class anyway (economics).

Another professor I have now has banned laptops all together. And she makes us do a ""minute paper"" in the first 5 min of class for attendance which you will miss if you are late and counts as a mark against your participation score. It's a 6pm class and most of us work full-time and have long commutes during traffic hour, so inevitably sometimes you are late to class.

It feels like high school and as adults I've seen a few people goofing off on their laptops, but the majority are taking notes or googling additional info on what we are talking about. 

Is this becoming more common?",116,191,17.12224015876927,GradSchool
The never-ending trek to the M.A.,"Evening all!  I'm a 2nd year Ph.D. student in anthropology.  I came into graduate school a little over a year ago having gotten my B.A. in December 2017.  I'm incredibly happy to have the opportunity to be here working on my project and taking classes, but having been here for over a year now, it seems like I don't have much to show for it.  

I'm planning on having my Master's Thesis done in 2020 - either May or December, but they both seem incredibly far away.  Does anyone have any tips on how to stay sane while I keep working and waiting for that time when I can say I have a degree to show for the work I've been doing?  Thanks all, and have a great week!",1,0,15.980376732843343,GradSchool
Graduate minors and taking grad courses with little prior relevant coursework?,"I am starting to look into applying for graduate school, and I am looking for information/advice on pursuing a graduate minor. I already know that I want to major in geography, which is what I did for my undergrad, but I would really like to minor or at least get some coursework in journalism and or communications/media studies. The problem, however, is that I went to a pretty small college and didn't really have a chance to take any journalism or communications courses (nor did I know at the time that I really was interested in those fields). I did take one media/cultural studies course (Film Analysis and Visual Culture), but that's about all I have for prior related coursework. My question for everyone is do schools typically allow you to take grad courses in a given field if you have little to no prior coursework in that field? If yes, do you have to find a way to get that prior coursework somehow, for instance taking an undergrad course as a grad student? I'm sure it depends at least partially on the school/program, but I'm just wondering if anyone has any general insight into this. I may sound like a complete novice here, but I do know people that ended up going to grad school for something completely unrelated to their undergrad degree, so I figure there must be some way to jump into certain fields with little experience. Any help would be greatly appreciated!",4,0,16.076777195806304,GradSchool
Looking for Programs,"I don't if this is the right place for this...

I am a Nigerian with about 7 years post Bsc work experience. (I work in development and I am currently mid-management/technical advisory level. I work specifically in Global Health Security.) I Just registered for the GRE. I have 0$ saved for graduate school but it is totally necessary to get it and from a good US school. What programs/funding opportunities should I be looking at? How should even approach looking?",4,0,16.18631423284334,GradSchool
What are your thoughts on Twitter?,"Personally, I can't stand it. I've honestly lost respect for professors in my department who post every day, circlejerking their preprints and seeking validation for their failures a la ""it happens to the best of us."" 

Am I just being a cynical asshole?",7,0,16.2012447883989,GradSchool
Building a tree of knowledge,"So, I just began grad school and was wondering if there is something (a website or a tool) that sort of creates a knowledge tree of the subject. I know a good book would be an answer because it literally does that. But what if I can't find a good book? Are there any attempts to build a tree that visually shows how knowledge has progressed and what are the current research questions asked? 

&#x200B;

Also, is there a recommender tool for research papers that you use? I've tried Mendeley's recommendations but wondering about others.",3,1,16.206210066176677,GradSchool
Dissertation's almost due,"My dissertation's due on Friday. I'm going to make it, but the ""dissertations are never finished, just abandoned"" adage is ringing real damn true. I've got a few more comments from readers to respond to on the last chapter and the intro and conclusion, and I want to flesh out my footnotes some more in a few other places. 

I'm so damn tired, you guys. I got stung by a wasp last week and had a terrible allergic reaction and have spent the second to last week I had to write hopped up on anti-histamines and steroids, and I trashed over a hundred pages of writing about a year ago and started over with a new outline, and this whole damn dissertation has been so stressful it's made me physically ill even when insects aren't trying to kill me. It's surreal seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, and not quite being there yet, and at the same time I don't know what I'm doing after I finish the degree yet which is terrifying. And the other person in my cohort who was supposed to be finishing at the same time as me might be getting his graduation pushed back a semester, which weirdly makes me feel like I'm going down the home stretch alone, and he's the one something bad happened to so I can't exactly complain to him. Is anyone else handing their dissertation in soon? This is getting increasingly hard to process.",3,7,16.730527195806307,GradSchool
How to improvise GPA with other completed (online) coursework?,"My GPA is measured out of a 10-point system. Currently, I've got an 8.6/10 and I have a year left -- this number is likely to remain (top of my class has got a 9.2/10, this is absolute grading). Converting unweighted to a 4-point system, my 8.6 is a 3.4 (ish) and weighted online calculators show me 3.6 (ish). I know the whole deal about not trying to convert GPA to other scales since it varies differently for different universities, but I want to know if completing certified online coursework can improve my chances at universities that have an average undergrad GPA of around 3.7. I'm talking about coursework that will \*not\* be on my transcripts, since my university is pretty damn rigid about this. Yes, the Letters of Recommendation and the Statement of Purpose help portray the image that ""my GPA is not the entire story"", but will these online courses count as well?",2,0,16.17571238099149,GradSchool
Mental Health Advice for Grad school,"I am first-year grad student, and I struggle with an anxiety disorder. I really need to find a doc to go on meds plus start-up weekly therapy for myself. I really don't know to broach this topic with a PI. Especially since I'm rotating, and time is limited between classes, studying, and lab to generate data for poster presentations we have to do by the end of the rotation.  

How do I manage to tell my PI  I need to take at least a few hours off to go to counseling for my mental well being without having them be upset I taking time off  lab?",12,57,17.263374418028526,GradSchool
Documenting code... Do you always do it?,"I just started my first semester of grad school doing computational biology. I have joined a lab, and this is really the first time I’ve programmed as more than just a hobbyist. I’ve always been anal about commenting code, but it seems that most people in the lab don’t. 

Also, our PI is always encouraging us to complete as much as possible each week. So, it seems natural to skimp out on comments for the sake of speed. 

Does anyone have advice on how they document code or what impacts undocumented code may have on publishing results?",12,2,16.846719325435934,GradSchool
"Thanks, you are the best.","This was a single line email from my major professor after finishing up a bunch of graphics for their presentation next week. I don't always desire kudos, but it definitely felt real good after a busy week of email traffic and edits.",2,201,17.901997103213713,GradSchool
Contemplating something and need help,"First off I’m in my first semester in college. I graduate high school with 64 credits which ate up almost every gen. ed I have to take. This means I could graduate with a major and minor (possible 2 minors) 2-3 semesters early depending on if I want one or two minors. I have a great scholarship that covers my tuition in full plus a little extra to bring home. 
Is it a good idea to graduate early? Would grad school be weirded out if I tried to apply for it so early? If I did go this route my scholarship is able to go towards my grad school tuition.",3,1,16.762633677287788,GradSchool
Resume Advice for Grad School,"Hello,

[https://imgur.com/a/hHnCGiw](https://imgur.com/a/hHnCGiw)

I am thinking of applying to grad school (research based) for next year, in the meantime I am working. I am just looking for some feedback on how should I shrink this resume to one page without taking away important information.

I edited it to hide my personal information. I would be grateful for any feedback, I appreciate it.

Thanks!",9,8,17.32873321432482,GradSchool
2 physics grads talk Sean Carroll on Joe Rogan,,0,1,17.093802658769267,GradSchool
"Please help! How do I get an entry-level job as a Strategy/Business Analyst in the US as an international student pursuing a masters at an ivy league currently? Set to graduate in May 2020, and only have internship experience.",,2,0,16.78659201062112,GradSchool
Is there qualitative student/scholar here who could help me switch quantitative style questions into qualitative questions?," 

Background: I'm doing a research study on communication apprehension and bilingualism. I'm doing this for a qualitative research class and so my research questions need to be fitted for an interview study. Can anyone either explain to me what to look out for (the do's and don'ts) or can I post the questions here to get some pointers of what I did wrong and how to change them? I guess in undergrad I got used to doing quant style questions :(

Also, would anyone know if there's a subreddit that could help me with IRB (Institutional Review Board) questions? I'm just about ready to submit the application to make this study publish-able, but i'm stuck in a few places.

Sorry also if this wasn't the right place to post either questions, I will delete if not appropriate for this place!",1,1,17.058478584695195,GradSchool
TA Win - sharing happiness from this morning's tutorial,"This is my second year TAing a first year course (the same one). I mark assignments (there is one almost every week) and exams, and I teach a one-hour tutorial for \~30 students once a week. This year I decided to try out an anonymous feedback & questions box and it is *so worth it*. I give every student an index card at the beginning of class, and get everybody to return their card to my box before they leave. If they don't have a comment, they just put it in blank. Then I go through the cards after class and try to answers the questions/incorporate their feedback into the next tutorial. Usually I get a few things that people didn't understand, and often there are duplicates (multiple people wanted to spend more time reviewing a previous assignment, for example). I sometimes get one saying something that they liked about how I taught, and one or two that have a smiley face.

Today, I got a ""Have a good day"" with a big smile, and a ""Look for something nice to smile about today. Your happiness is worth it. :)""

These students are awesome and I am so happy right now. This made my day. I'm tired and stressed out - I'm currently both a full-time PhD student and a part-time MA student, with both a TAship and an RAship, and I've got a massive scholarship application due at 8pm today. Before I go back to desperately trying to revise my scholarship proposal and rewrite my MA thesis, I'm taking a minute to savour this moment, and be grateful.",7,132,18.288177658769268,GradSchool
Spreading myself to thin.,"Let me talk about a stressful day, I am spreading myself to thin. 

I want to go out but I also want to work on my research and side projects. I also have to grade for my students. The problem now is that I just got invited to my schools tailgate. I know that if I go to the tail gate I will be thinking about how I can get ahead in research , but if I stay home Ill be thinking about going to the tailgate. Looks like ill be going to the tailgate. I feel this will be best just might not get drunk.",3,2,17.230446177287785,GradSchool
What’s the best thing an advisor ever said to you?,Inspired by a recent post here,15,7,17.817240158769266,GradSchool
HIGHLY interested in moving to Germany for Grad School. Any advice?,"I am in the initial stages of my research and am narrowing down my options. But I am pretty confident that I will pursue psychology/counseling. 

I am an American citizen living on the east coast and have my bachelor’s in criminal justice. 

If anyone has made a similar move, what advice do you have for me? 

Any and all advice is appreciated. 
Thank you all",21,7,17.886395251361858,GradSchool
"Thinking of writing a book about what prospective grad students should keep in mind throughout, kind of like a survival/advisory guide","What do y’all think? I’m gonna do this after I graduate, if you think it’s a good idea. Just to kind of share the lessons I’ve learned through my experiences and foreshadow what might happen etc.",14,14,18.07318923284334,GradSchool
How close should a PI's field of study align with my interests when planning to study in a less popular field?,"For  background information: I study Chinese history, with an intense   interest in the Republican and Maoist periods (1920s-late 1970s). I want   to study either Russian-Sino relationships with an concentration on  how  Communist ideals transmitted to China or the treatment and societal   status of homosexual men during this period (and I guess women too, to   an extent). However most professors I look at don’t study exactly this   and either study that period (or peripheral periods) but with a focus  on  something else, like religion or whatnot.

So   my question is this: how important is it that my interest align up   perfectly with a potential professor I want to study under for Ph.D,   especially in a still growing field like Chinese history.  I’m currently   writing statement of purposes and not sure how much of an issue it   would be for certain schools. I don’t want to waste money if they’re   just going to automatically throw out my application, despite having   good academics, LoR, and foreign language knowledge, because no   professor studies exactly what I want.

comment",11,7,17.897992473584083,GradSchool
Thinking of going abroad to grad school,"Does anybody have any advice? I haven’t solidified anything yet. I’m currently getting my BSC in mental health. I’d like to pursue clinical psychology. 

My family is very negative in this aspect. They want the best for me but keep telling me to stay here in my home city. I’d really like to go out of my comfort zone and be in my own. I know it’s a huge jump but I also just hate being the only one who believes in myself.

I’m thinking of either going somewhere within my country (Canada) or Amsterdam. 

Does anyone have any tips/feel good words? I’m feeling a little shitty/anxious/overwhelmed all together lol.",5,3,17.829311918028527,GradSchool
Paying for Grad School. How many loans did you take it? Were the loans very costly? Did you have a chance of being awarded any financial aid or tuition based jobs with a professor or with your department?,I'm curious about Grad School but worried about the costs of paying for it. I barely got through my undergrad with scholarships and financial aid.,14,10,18.109647566176672,GradSchool
Please take my survey for my class project (must be 25-32 years old),,0,0,17.035376732843343,GradSchool
Any advice on catching up?,"I got severely ill very recently to the point I didn't even have the strength to get out of bed. I fell behind on my homework and readings, but the teacher allowed me to get an extension due to the circumstances? Other than staying off reddit any advice on getting it done faster. I've been doing it, but it's slow going with other homework already being assigned.",2,2,17.99235589951001,GradSchool
"Left medical school several years ago, started a company, and make a good living. But I'm not stimulated, and am considering applying for a PhD program in plant genetics. Is it worth it?","While in undergrad, I always assumed I'd go get a PhD right afterwards. My lab advisors heavily advised me against it, and encouraged me to pursue medical school instead, as they said it would give me more options. I had the grades, the right classes, and the right experiences already, so I went for it. 

I got in to a MD program, and attended for about a year before leaving. Even though I enjoyed the material I was learning, I found the program to be toxic. So I left, moved, and started a tutoring company. 

Right now, I have everything I thought I wanted. I'm happily married, have a house, and make a great salary with very few hours. But I'm honestly really bored. I love teaching and working with my students, but I'm not getting intellectually stimulated. And I think there's a possibility I could keep a few students on top of grad school work for the extra income.

I'm heavily considering applying for a PhD in plant genetics. Areas that interest me are improving plants' adaptability to climate change, and engineering them to produce nutrients that may be more scarce in the future. My B.S. was in genetics as well, and one of my parents was a botanist. So I'm familiar with the field. 

But I'm not sure if I'm completely insane to consider this or not. Part of me is worried that the ship sailed when I graduated in 2013. So is it worth it? Are all of you happy to be in grad school, or would you trade it for an easy job and good money?",7,7,18.26005265876927,GradSchool
Struggling in Graduate School,"I'm just starting my Masters program and I'm feeling so overwhelmed. I can't finish my homework assignments, I can't make friends, I spend pretty much all day in the library studying and I feel like I'm not making progress intellectually. I knew grad school would be challenging but it's just been really depressing so far.",3,6,18.267170714324823,GradSchool
Start up based on PhD project? How does it work?,"I am planning to start PhD project hunting soon, and my main goal after obtaining my PhD is to have my own start up based on my project or probably after a few years of working as a post doc somewhere. I am planning to make this super clear to any potential PI before starting with them as well. However, if research is associated to a certain professor, how do students usually have their own startup based on that? I would imagine that professors would typically want their idea to stay their own or be heavily involved in any start up that arises based on their work/ideas? If it matters, I'm hoping to open my start up in a different country from where my PhD is going to be, so I dont think the PI will be super involved in the start up either.",7,3,18.21571238099149,GradSchool
ScholarOne manuscript “Under Review”,"Probably has been asked before but when I look this up online I get conflicting answers.

Some people say it means the manuscript has been sent to reviewers while others say its still being looked at by the editors.

So which one is it? This is my 1st time submitting a paper and I am wondering if I got past the desk rejection stage",5,2,18.126163769880378,GradSchool
What do you ask at grad school fairs?,Is it the equivalent of an undergraduate college fair? What kind of questions do you ask the representatives? What information do you try to get?,6,4,18.30637210321371,GradSchool
Is it a good idea for me to go to Grad School?,"   
I am currently a senior in college, getting my BS in Physics. My parents want me to go to grad school to get a Masters before joining the workforce, while I think it is a better idea for me to apply for jobs in Engineering or Programming right after graduation. I already have some experience with engineering projects and the C programming language. They argue that a masters makes me more marketable, and I will get higher paying jobs. I don't think that a Masters will give me any advantage over what job I get and so I see it as a waste of time and money. What do you all think about getting a Masters degree? Will it help my job prospects or not?",7,2,18.169624418028526,GradSchool
Letter of motivation for grant application,"I am not sure if this has been asked earlier, if yes, then just guide me there.  
I am applying for a PhD fellowship and I need to write a Letter of Motivation. Does anyone have experience with this? What exactly should I write? I have written a draft but for some reason, it seems a little immature to me",0,1,18.07688136247297,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Write a lot of code?

* Celebrate your birthday?

* Meet with your new advisor and find out they're fantastic?

* Earn stellar student evaluations?

* Have your work published online?

* Go out for dinner paid for by your advisor?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",13,2,18.280955436547046,GradSchool
"How can I make the most of my time in grad school, pursuing an MSc in International Security?","I am a grad student persuing an MSc in International security. I chose this degree because I felt my B.A. in IR was too broad and I want to zone in on something more specific. I think peacekeeping is an interesting topic in international security I may do my dissertation on. My optional modules for the year are ""the politics of insecurity"" and ""Evaluating and managing development"".

How can I make the most of this time in Grad school? I will be attending the University of Bristol in the UK starting monday. I want to join societies related to international affairs and volunteering as well as a small part time job. Any advice helps!",4,0,18.13656886247297,GradSchool
"If you are a first generation student, how do you cope when your family or friends who ""just don't get it"" are not supportive?","I am a first generation student, and the first person in my family to ever pursue a doctorate. Increasingly, I find myself extremely frustrated and angry with my family and friends for not understanding that this isn't some bs degree that just requires the bare minimum of work. 

How do I get them to understand that this is really difficult? I feel resentful because they can blow off steam after work and don't have the same crazy schedule that I do, so they don't understand what I'm going through and are rarely supportive. Any advice?",68,237,19.389392936547047,GradSchool
Opinions on out of field master's thesis?,"I'm mechanical engineering master's student with focus on aerospace and it is time for me to choose a thesis topic now. However, I started this a bit late and there are not any available projects on aerospace. In this case, I either have to wait for a semester to see new projects and hope there is one I like or take a project in another field, most likely robotics, medical applications or general manufacturing. Unfortunately I do not have a particular interest in any of these fields and fear that I will not find enough motivation to push myself hard and get really good results. Also I'm suspicious on how this would affect my future, as I'm pretty sure I'll continue to work on aerospace after graduating. So I would like to ask people who have done their thesis on a different field, did you find it worth?  How enjoyable or stressful was the process? How is it perceived when you look for a job or phd in your orijinal field?",0,1,18.19414988099149,GradSchool
[Theoretical and Applied Math PhD] or [CS PhD] How important is a second language?,"I see a lot of undergraduate programs urging students to pick up French, Russian, or German as a second language for math and CS.  If I apply for a Math PhD or CS PhD program will it hurt me not knowing another language?  Is this to conduct research in other countries or translating math papers in other languages?

I was thinking Russian mainly because I am near a large Russian population and proper grammar as well as functional communication could be learned simultaneously.  

I am most likely going to pursue mathematical machine learning if they allow me or a focus in Linear Algebra, maybe commutative Ring or Field theory (these are not as applicable to real-world problems so I am hesitant on conveying this as a specialization, it is important in networking though).  In my college system you must go for a Master's somewhere and you will most likely select a local professor (Master's college) as an adviser for your dissertation.  I like that it allows a terminal Master's but you also need to be precise on where you choose to attend for the first step.

I have a couple of years with building software so any coding can be done relatively easy, and I also know a broad spectrum of CS theory.

Can any Math PhD's also speak to whether this level of education is helpful anymore?  With the internet people can hack together math ideas to accomplish tasks, so is a true formal training important?  Many of the advisers are from MIT, Harvard, and many other top tier programs, so I believe the program will be as good as I can make it.  I was also tempted to pursue Statistics or Probability since this ties in deeply with Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, but I was burned by my probability and stats class, which made me a little timid of that study as well.

tl;dr do I need to know Russian, French, or German to make the most out of a PhD program?  What math specialization will allow me to solve real-world problems opposed to being bound more to an academic setting?  I know programming extensively but I would like to sharpen my problem-solving ability.  Also I am not married, no kids, no girlfriend, and I make mostly A's with a few B's in my math, CS classes.",9,1,18.237031825435935,GradSchool
Finance Master Thesis Defense,"I have my Finance master thesis defense tomorrow. Help!

And as a good student, I have just started my ppt. 

I do know my topic from cover to cover buuuuut I don't know how to structure the defense.

I am doing an econometrics analysis on the volatility of option in the healthcare industry. Yada yada.

My methodology part on the thesis itself is huge, lots of factors and assumption.

I was told to NOT show methodology and just go to the regression part and show the final regression, results and how it is applied.

Anyone has a tip on that? Should I detail my methodology, or is it better to show the final application and dive into methodology if asked?",3,2,18.406013306917416,GradSchool
Was This Potential Supervisor Disrespectful Towards Me?,"So, I am applying again for graduate school this year as I did not make it in last year. I'm applying to all Canadian universities as an American, so there will be slight mention of it here, but not too much where you guys will be confused hopefully. 

I scheduled two interviews at a university near Toronto and rode a bus all the way from the East coast of America to Canada. I am also visiting friends all week, so it wasn't like I was going there just for schools. We also had to drive about an hour from Toronto to the university using a rent a car. 

My first interview was great and I feel like I have a chance of getting into this person's lab, so no complaints there. The second interview though was...troubling and I'm not sure if it was normal. 

For context, I graduated with a neuroscience degree but I am interested in social psychology and human relationships, just with a bit of a neuroscience twist. Both profs I interviewed for are in the psychology department, but the majors are so closely related so you can easily go into psychology with a neuroscience degree. 

When I walk in for the second interview, I am immediately getting attacked. This Prof pulls up my application from last year as well as my GRE scores. While I would understand this in a circumstance that the GRE was still being used in Canada it is not being used by this university at all this year. My GRE scores are BAD because of multiple reasons, one of which being I am a horrible standardized test taker and I didn't want to spend 200 more dollars on a test that the universities im applying to don't even use for admission anymore. 

The Prof says that these scores worry her and that based on them I would've already been put into the no pile. I explain that my scores don't reflect me as a student at all and the makes I received in undergrad should reflect that. I graduated with a 3.36 and got good grades in my English, statistics and math courses. I am also learning MatLab, so I am perfectly capable of doing statistical math. 

They then ask why I want to go to Canada for school, I explain that I like the diversity here and that I believe that if I can go to graduate school and have my education paid for by stipend and...I don't even get to the point where I can say I'm also applying for scholarships when they cut me off to explain how my stipend and tuition would cancel each other out. 

They then ask why I want to go for my masters. I explain I would like to get a PhD as I like the opportunities it would afford me. They explain how getting a PhD lowers my flexibility, ok...fair I guess. 

But the thing that bothered me the most was the fact that they accused me of picking them because I just despretly wanted to get in somewhere, and that they were my fourth choice. I only talked to two profs this year, but they were using my application last year against me which I thought was wholly unfair. They flat out said based on my interest I would not be a good fit for their lab and that they wouldn't even consider me and that the only reason I was talking to them was because I was traveling her from the US. I was dumbfounded and angry. Why couldn't you have told me this in the initial email? Why did you waste my time coming her when you already made up your mind? I could've scheduled an interview with someone else have you told me this previously. I feel like I not only wasted my time, but my friend who paid money for a car to drive up here. Is this normal? Is this what happens? Or is this just flat out Disrespectful?",8,1,18.358733214324822,GradSchool
"Applying to Grad School, what's the basic thing you need to do?",A personal statement right? recommendation letter from your professor? what else?,4,0,18.11104802913964,GradSchool
Does anyone else get so overwhelmed that they end up doing absolutely no work?,"I just started my PhD program a month ago and I find myself going through cycles of getting some things done, then spending days in my cubicle in the shared office space getting absolutely nothing done. I leave things for the last minute all the time. I go home early. I’m halfassing basic things. I can’t find it in me to care. 

This is what I want to do. I’ve worked so hard to get here. What is going on with me?

EDIT: Thanks for all the really kind comments and messages. The support has been great. But I just wanted to say that I wrote this comment while in a really bad mindset and it’s not representative of how I always feel or exist. This shit just gets hard and I’ve worked so hard to get here that I am exhausted so it fucks with my head when my background/age/race is thrown in my face to make me feel like I’m not doing enough or as much. It’s horrible. 


If I want anyone to take anything away from all of this, it’s to be kind to your cohort members because this PhD shit is hard. Also make everyone feel welcome regardless of their background, because you have no idea what they’re dealing with and kindness can do a lot to improve the culture of your program. ❤️",89,622,19.953501732843343,GradSchool
Is it too much to want the best? (Warning- It's a huge ass post!!),"So here's a little background on me (which you'll need!). It was 2013 and I was a fresh high school graduate with absolutely no ambition, aim or goal in life. My parents wanted me to do a bachelors in engineering and they made a hefty donation to get me into a T50 college in my country. I got in, the course never resonated with me and with the passage of time my grades and what little interest I had deteriorated. I ended up not clearing 19 exams over the course of three years (we have 7 subjects a semester and 2 semesters in a year). I finally decided to drop out of college and do something that actually makes sense. 

Many a summers and winters later, it was the June of 2017 and I decided to take up my bachelors in business administration from a not so well known university. when i joined i had no clarity in terms of what i wanted, i had no confidence or self-confidence but I had a burning desire to prove everyone who didn't have faith in me to be wrong. Over the course of 2.5 years I managed to get that chip off my shoulder (i think?), become an A+ Student (91% over 4 semesters), having done 5 internships which took be to different places within the country and abroad, was elected president of the student council and was also the recipient of the universities leadership award. By now i had a clear idea of what i wanted to do in life- i wanted to become a consultant in the field of marketing and I knew i wanted to go to grad school and I knew why i wanted to do so. 

When the time came for applying I first started considering the T100 schools and then as the time for me to submit applications approached T100 became T50 which became T20 and Now I'm considering applying to and focusing on T5 schools. My teachers and peers think that I have what it takes but my folks are skeptical about me being able to cope up with the programme. Initially i was confident about being able to handle it but now dread grows stronger in my minds and fear is creeping in, paralyzing my actions and adding a bit of indecisiveness each time I think about it. I don't know what to do! it's a huge investment in terms of both time and money- but do i have the necessary skill sets coming from a not too great college (as I know my competition will be the best of the best)? do i have what it takes to get through the programme? I don't know! have any of you been in the same position and what have you done or what would you do?!",9,0,18.452355899510007,GradSchool
2 physicists and 1 biology grads talk about leopard slug sex,,0,0,18.371973955065563,GradSchool
Thinking about ditching science for art school.,"I started a MSc program in molecular genetics research at the University of Toronto a few weeks ago, which entails 3 5-week rotations. I'm currently halfway through my first rotation and although the research is interesting, I can't help but find myself not suitable for academia. I can't help but feel like other first years in my program are a lot more passionate about research than I could ever hope to be (they are asking insightful questions, have more experience having worked in labs over the summer, etc.)

The only reason I pursued this program was because I got rejected from Genetic Counseling and was sick of working customer service jobs (I had a hard time finding a job in science after my undergrad). I had a horrible time thinking of committing to PIs so I chose a program that offers lab rotations.

However, science and fine arts have always been my two passions, and now I'm thinking I should pursue a career in art. I've done my fair share of commissions and selling pieces online, but I'm thinking of dropping out of the MSc program and going to an art college program. I initially thought of going into a Medical Illustration / Biomedical Communications program; however, not only am I missing a couple pre reqs from undergrad, but U of T is the only school that offers it in Canada. I was thinking of maybe boosting my portfolio by attending a college program before applying to a Masters in Biomed Communications. 

Am I shooting myself in the foot if I drop out of U of T only to reapply a few years later?

Tldr; academia probably isn't for me, am I making a mistake to drop out and pursue fine arts?",16,2,18.89676562173223,GradSchool
IR Certifications,Does anyone have any recommendations on any good certifications for IR/Political Science grad students to obtain?,2,6,19.161267936547045,GradSchool
Can I just say how much I REALLY enjoy grad school?,"I see a lot of negative posts here (and I get it, we ALL get burn out) but I'd really like to talk a bit about how GREAT grad school is. These last few years have been some of the best in my life. I love academic culture, I love what I study and what I get to research. I have a lot of fun with my work and I am almost sad to leave when I graduate in June 2020. This has been a special experience and I really wouldn't trade it for anything in the world.

I really enjoyed grad school compared to just college. College was fun socially but I just didn't really like college culture. I partied a lot but towards the end I just outgrew everything and wanted to leave. Grad school has been much more intense and interesting than anything I did in undergrad.

So let's post something positive! Cheer up! Take a break, you deserve it! Have some wine and listen to some smooth jazz, you, yes you, are an academic now. 

Thanks for reading, *doctor.*",11,73,19.79125636247297,GradSchool
Science student/ researcher FEEDBACK NEEDED (5 mins)- on a tool that connects designers + researchers to a real community project,"I am exploring a tool where design and science students can connect to work on a service/program/UX design project together from a project sponsor within the same community. (Basis of the projects revolve around healthcare, community health, Social Determinants of Health).

Here is the survey: [https://forms.gle/p91KwDYNuyj68JPY8](https://forms.gle/p91KwDYNuyj68JPY8)

I believe the motives are all aligned:

* Community Project Sponsor (for example a community non-profit) - a well-designed project backed with real scientific research
* Design student: an impactful, potentially implementable project on portfolio
* Science student: apply research to a real setting, impactful on CV/resume, a portfolio piece, and potential publishing

Let me know what you think. I'm in the process of doing user-research on project sponsors, design students and science/research students.",0,2,18.981800343954454,GradSchool
What are your feelings about departmental awards/fellowships?,"Obviously it's great when you receive them. But as someone who's usually (aka never) not nominated for the awards, it makes me feel inadequate. The consensus among students (and on here) is that we shouldn't make a big deal out of it - everyone's progress is different - don't compare to others...etc. But, I cannot stop myself from being less than the others. I am doing my best, given the resources I have, but recognition is nice. If you get it.",15,7,19.312228584695195,GradSchool
My rotation advisor is awesome and it's left me super conflicted,"I've recently started a PhD program with 3 mandatory rotations. I selected this program because there's a PI here I really wanted to work with, and I have already spoken to that PI and they essentially agreed that they would be my advisor.

However, I just started my first rotation this past week, and the work is totally different from everything I've done before, while still remaining in the same general field. This advisor is incredible. I have already learned so much in the past few days; this person is clearly brilliant, and has been so patient with my catching up to speed while still moving through everything at an extremely fast pace. We have super compatible senses of humor. The work, though I still don't entirely understand the nuances, is growing on me.

I don't know what to do. The work in this lab could be theoretically be done in at a ton of different universities, greatly expanding my career options compared to the first PI (very niche). But I have already started to develop a fairly strong network in that original subfield, and I really love the work I've done in it so far. I have met that PI a few times as well, and while I think we would get along we almost certainly wouldn't have the same chemistry (hah) as I do with the rotation advisor. I feel so conflicted, like I'm questioning a part of my identity. I was not expecting this.

Any advice would be greatly appreciated.",4,1,19.016916084695193,GradSchool
Engineering to English?,"To make a long story short, I have been working as a Biomedical Engineer for the past 5 years now, but my dream is to be an English Professor. I have a BS in Biomedical Engineering and I minored in English Language and Literature. What I want to know is, is it possible for me to get a PhD in English Lit or similar? Would it be best for me to try for a Master’s degree first? Would I need to start all the way over and get a BA first?

Any help is appreciated!",6,1,19.036129047658157,GradSchool
How to tell my advisor that i want to leave the program,"I interned during the summer and half-jokingly said that I wish they would give me a job, they did and I've already signed the offer. Unfortunately, I am an international student and getting a work visa is not easy. I was waiting to tell my advisor until things became clearer and I've basically kept him in the dark for the past month or so. What's the best way to break the news without making it sound like I was trying to fool him. I don't want things to get sour between us and for him to think that the company was trying to poach me.",2,2,19.198490158769268,GradSchool
Freaking out about the GRE,"So I've got one more attempt at this damn test. I'm taking it on October 5. I've been studying for months, I already took it two times, and got a 149Q.

I'm doing it because the University of Waterloo requires it for international students. I'm applying to CS.

I've taken several practice tests and I can't seem to get more than 151.

I don't know what to do anymore. I've tried everything. I've paid insane amounts of money to get this to work and I can't seem to get anything but crap score in math.

I hate this test, it's nothing more than a scam designed to fleece students out of their money and to keep poor people out of college.

Anybody have any advice? I have half a week before I have to take it. I could delay it one more week if everything goes right. I just want to be done with it. I've spent the last 7 months fighting this test.",36,0,19.082506362472973,GradSchool
European Bachelor's Degree in America,"I'm currently a second year US IMG that is doing a 6 year medical school program in Europe which counts for a bachelor's degree and MD degree here in the US if I pass the USMLE steps. I was wondering if I would be allowed to pursue an MBA degree after I complete the 6 year Bachelor/MD in Europe. Also, after becoming a doctor, would that help me get into an MBA program? I scored 1330/1600 on the SAT and had pretty decent grades. What would the MBA program look at, if they do accept my European degree, in order to let me enroll in their program? I was thinking to do an online MBA in order to be able to work as an anesthesiologist which is my main goal. Those are like 1-2 years, right?",8,1,19.181487843954454,GradSchool
UPDATE: Switching Advisors,"Original post [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d8pyy5/i_am_about_to_make_the_greatest_decision_ever/).

So what happened was, I asked the lady at the graduate program office to reject my current petition so that I can submit another one to change advisors. I had planned to bring this up to my advisor today in my meeting with him, but he got the rejection notification. Here's exactly what happened.

Advisor: What was that thing about something being rejected per request of student?

Me: Oh! I planned to tell you this after the meeting.

Advisor: Oh, why can't we talk about it now?

Me: We can. So, my research interests have taken a divergent path into security electronics, and \[new advisor\] is actively doing research in that area, so I will be continuing my PhD under his supervision.

Advisor: Well, that was one of my suggestions earlier when we were discussing options.

Me: I even told you, from Day 1, that my future is in academia, and I see a much more fruitful future in academia in pursuing that research area. It's absolutely nothing personal, strictly divergence in research interests.

Advisor: Yeah, ok. When is this effective?

Me: Next semester. If there's any final list of demands that you have for me, other than this current project, I'll be happy to meet before we part ways.

Advisor: The only thing I'll need is a report for this project. The end of the semester is in mid-December, so I'll get the report from you then.

So all in all, it went very well! Now I am working on the petition, and I asked my new advisor what other committee member he recommends (one of the requirements is that I have a committee member in the same research group).

Looking forward to finishing my PhD ASAP!",2,78,20.18114062173223,GradSchool
PhD interview tips please,I am waiting for my PhD placement interview coming on this Wednesday. It's going to be panel of 3 people and I am already feeling sick even thinking about it. I feel like I might forget everything on the day of interview. I need advice and help how to tackle this pleaseeeeee,2,0,19.20364062173223,GradSchool
What is your system for storing/managing literature? Feeling exceptionally overwhelmed.,"I'm a bit of an anxious person, and for some reason the process of choosing a way to store/manage literature is freezing me in place. I'm not even sure what it is I'm looking for which is part of the problem, so recommendations would be helpful. Are there pros/cons to certain systems or methods? I'm new to all of this, but will most likely be doing an integrative lit review if that helps with suggestions. Thanks!",7,1,19.23409201062112,GradSchool
Is it better to have a letter of recommendation from someone related to my field or an unrelated professor?,"I’m applying to a masters of design in Sustainable urban environments. After college I did a summer internship where I focused on a lot of sustainable land management and landscaping. The program director wasn’t involved with as much of that but could still talk about my work. 

On the other hand, I can ask my committee member from undergrad who helped advise my thesis but doesn’t have anything to do with design. 

I have one academic and one non profit reference. Which route do I go for the third?",2,1,19.29099015876927,GradSchool
I'm finished! Submitting tomorrow. What a journey.,"https://www.imgur.com/a/lNBLhb8

Nearly 7 years of work. Through all the shit we went through with the animal rights activists.

I have 3 published papers (PNAS, J Neurosci and Exp Brain Res) and two to submit by next month (one submitting to Science, fkn hell hope it works).

But I'm dooooone.",18,58,20.2727609921026,GradSchool
Analysis Paralysis,"I’m currently in the process of writing my thesis, but I just can’t do it. I saw someone else call this phenomenon analysis paralysis and it really resonated with me. I am feeling so stuck and so lost in my writing, it doesn’t help my project didn’t really work out well (Masters thesis) but just all the data feels like crap so I’m having a really hard time with it. I made a big mistake in not writing throughout my thesis (learn from my mistake even if it’s a two page write up everything helps). 

I sit at my computer where I feel like I’ve optimized my set up with a desktop monitor/keyboard/comfortable chair (vs laptop at school desk) but I just get so lost staring at the screen. I get lost in the deep depths of excel files, papers, and folders within folders. So I grab something to distract myself in this viscous cycle of avoidance and then 2 hours have passed and I’ve done nothing. I have deadlines approaching that I don’t think I’m going to make, my brain just wants to shut off and sleep. I feel like I have put zero effort into this thing thus far

My supervisor I know wants to help but every time we meet she overwhelms me with information things to add things to change. I feel like I’m letting her down as my project and my enthusiasm has gone down the drain. 

I just want to be done but getting there seems like it’s going to be impossible. 

If you’ve made it this far thank you. I feel like this is a ramble and I appreciate you sticking around and reading this.",3,9,19.848085066176676,GradSchool
Supposed to submit my initial thesis draft next week and I am miserable.,"Background: I was a great undergraduate student/researcher. I did well in everything, and rarely encountered problems in my coursework or research internships.

For my M.Sc, I have done equally as well in all of my classes (at a different school), and paid a ton of money (more than my funding) in rent, tuition, etc., putting myself in a financial hole. I’m now about to submit the initial draft of my M.Sc thesis. My supervisor wanted me to study a (pretty intense) paper about a subject that was completely new to me, and write my thesis so that he could understand the material of this paper without putting a ton of time in to work out the details.

I have done this. My supervisor acknowledges that my thesis has helped him understand the paper written a few years ago, so I should have no trouble having it accepted, right? Well, I have verified all of the results presented in the paper I am studying, putting the details in my thesis  with the exception of 2 calculations. I have been trying for weeks to verify them but I am unable to do so. My supervisor has the attitude that unless I can verify these calculations (that were done by a well respected researcher in the field and are definitely correct), that my thesis is incomplete and he won’t accept it. He also hasn’t offered to help much with trying to verify these calculations as they are “just calculations”.

I don’t know what to do. I have a meeting Friday to go over the “final” draft for my initial submission but I’m not going to be able to have what he wants by then. If he doesn’t allow it to be submitted because it fails to meet his standards, I don’t know how I’m going to handle it. I have been losing sleep, unable to eat, and generally feel nauseous trying to do my day to day routine because this is stuck in my head every day. This past year or so has been really rough on my family (lost family home in a fire after I moved, mother needs major reconstructive surgery on her knee in the near future, family’s closest friend was just diagnosed with cancer), and I feel like it’s all too much. 

I feel that, even though I’m so close to being done, if my submission gets shots down I should just step away from school and focus on sorting my life out because this is no way to live. Does anyone have any advice or calming words? I would really appreciate it.

Sorry for the rant.",15,70,20.340041084695194,GradSchool
Just quit my PhD,"To everyone that's dealing with hard times and toxic lab situations, even if you're 3 years in, you can always quit. I did today after 3 days into  an industry job. My baby momma kicked me out of the apt I still pay for 8mos ago, and I've been homeless. My pi was never around and very negative when he was. I had finished all my classes, but completing a thesis under my circumstances wasn't feasible, so peace! And you can too.",2,8,19.854161455065565,GradSchool
What are some benefits commonly offered by graduate schools that students may not know about?,,40,41,20.273686918028528,GradSchool
Gradschool gpa requirnments,"         I guess this had been discussed countless times but here i go. I am a senior mechatronics student, i got my fair share of problems in life and i couldnt really care about collage in most of my first and second year of the collage. I know this is not important and i should have been succesfull anyway and deal with whatever life throws at me and gradschool commites domt care about my problems. Since the third year i am working significantly harder while trying to catch up and i am expecting to graduate with a gpa of 3,0-3,2  . I wonder where i can study robotics and control systems. I am planning to get MS in university of twente. My question is if i could get in there? If not where would i fit and which schools would accept me? This summer i am planning to do erasmus+ program and do scientific research with a proffesor in europe, would this significantly increase my chance to get admitted? I am really stressed out and I cant stop constantly calculating letter grades and their effect to my gpa. I dont know if anyone will reply but thanks whoever does.",2,0,19.088166084695196,GradSchool
Getting overwhelmed as a new grad student,"I am a new grad student and have little research experience. In one of my classes, we need to study a research paper and present it, like we wrote it. I can't follow the Math in their at all. We also need to do a project that furthers the field. Most students already are working with their advisers and thus are submitting their old stuff as the project, but I am new, and not familiar with research. I don't think I can maintain the required GPA at all. Any ideas on what should I do?",4,36,20.298166084695193,GradSchool
Got Accepted for Theoretical Computer Science at Charles Uni in Prague but VISA got denied not sure what to do,,6,2,19.66170775136186,GradSchool
Approaching multiple potential masters supervisors in the same department,"I'm looking to apply for a Masters in Chemistry at a university in Japan starting in October 2020.
My undergrad degree was very broad, covering the basics of Chemistry. I did carry out a research project during my 3rd year, but I had no say in the topic and ,honestly, I didn't find it particularly interesting (although I loved the process of actually being in a lab and doing research hence why I want to pursue a Masters). As a result I don't have any specific topic that I'm burning to focus on for my research. 

I need to contact potential supervisors and secure the promise of a place with one of them before submitting my application to the University in November. So I've been browsing the researcher's directory  I've found a couple of different groups whose work I find interesting. However, these group's research are in quite different areas but they are within the same department of the same school. Also, neither is at all related to my undergrad research experience.   

Would it harm my chances to approach both Professors? I'm worried that I'll appear unfocused and confused. (I guess I am, but I don't want them to know that😅) ",1,2,19.685017936547045,GradSchool
Small rant: sometimes working with my advisor feels like screaming into the void!,"My PI and I have had a semi tumultuous relationship that is mostly worked out now. However, I’m helping to write a portion of a lab mates dissertation (coproject, I’m doing a base outline of materials and some results thus far) and my PI is SO UNHAPPY with my writing, and half the time it’s not my fault!

Six months ago I had diagrams of my experiments (flow charts, these are very complex multi step experiments that are hard to follow) when I showed him this in a PowerPoint form. He deleted my diagrams and changed it to words. Today I get into the draft of a word doc and the DIAGRAMS ARE BACK. Only drawn by him, and 10x more confusing than they were before. (Note: this is a semi common phenomena with him, we tend to have an experiment or two that he’ll shoot down until we’ve brought it up 3-4x and he’ll bring it up as “why don’t you do X instead” awhile later... so I should be used to it. It’s still frustrating when it’s a document you’ve spent over a week writing for a project you’ve been on for a year)

He also has notes halfway through a sentence where he asks for details that are provided at the end of the sentence.

He ALSO changed my buffer/reagent nomenclature and then has comments being confused about the buffer/reagent nomenclature when he is the one that changed it to where it does not make sense. (I.e. buffers were added with Y if applicable (and a table of buffers listed)  to buffer A was added with Y if applicable  (pi:why is it applicable?))

I know I just need to go into his office and discuss it with him (he’s very great at talking with us!) but I now feel like he thinks I’m incompetent when it’s not entirely my fault! His comments are meant to help improve me as a writer but I really dislike it when his comments are things that finishing the sentence would explain.",3,5,19.882355899510006,GradSchool
Terrified of Failure,"I'm about to start an MPhil in philosophy. It's a two-year master's-level research degree, and I'm hoping to apply for a PhD afterwards. I did my undergrad in philosophy and English, and while I got pretty good marks in philosophy, my English marks were relatively poor. The disparity in marks has me wondering whether my success in undergrad philosophy was just a fluke. I'm absolutely terrified of failing. I feel like I know nothing about philosophy.

I'd really appreciate some advice. I don't know how to get past this fear and it's affecting my ability to focus.",3,9,20.097228584695195,GradSchool
How do you cope with burnout?,"I’ve been working on my dissertation research for 50-60 hrs/week for months, and I haven’t taken more than a day or two off. I only recently hit a wall, and I think I may be burnt out. My experiments are getting sloppy, my brain is foggy, but taking time off doesn’t seem to help me. It just makes me feel more anxious and neurotic and I have more time for my brain to invent fake problems to obsess about. I love this work because it is fulfilling, it gives structure to my days, and it’s challenging. I see a therapist and feel like I’m generally proactive about mental health. Yet still the burnout... and at a terrible time, when I need to be publishing. What should I do? Vacation? I feel like leaving town would be running from my problems. New diet? A book I should read? 

Obviously there’s no silver bullet solution, but I would be curious to know how other grad students cope with burnout.

EDIT: my projects are going well, I have a lot of data, my relationship with my advisor is pretty good, there’s a good community of grad students. Which is why I’m so puzzled about why I can’t get out of bed and go do my research!",9,12,20.151800343954452,GradSchool
Some of the programs I'm applying to require a professor support you before you apply.,What is the best way to do this? Do I ask them or do I wait for them to ask me? Would flying out make a better impression?,4,2,19.812309603213713,GradSchool
Stressed I might get a C my first half semester,"Hey guys,

I’m extremely stressed that I might get a C in one of my classes my first semester, which is not a passing grade like in most grad schools. This first semester has been incredibly overwhelming and I felt like I was drowning for a lot of it. To cope I began to take more time for myself and while this made me much happier, looking back I realize it caused me to fall behind in a class that I find very interesting. Now I’m set to take the final in a week and feel like there’s no way to get a good command of the material while I have two other finals to study for along with my TA duties. I’m back to feeling completely helpless and terrified of what’s going to happen. Has anyone here gotten a C in a class and managed to persevere afterwards or is this a sign that I might not be cut out for grad school?",2,0,19.68193923284334,GradSchool
Budget for Grad School Apps,"Hi all! 

I am helping my sister prepare for grad school apps, and it just reminded me of how expensive everything is! I want to ask the forum about approximately how much ya'll spent applying to grad school. 

I know that everyone's programs are different in regards to application fees, testing fees, test prep courses and review costs. I think that hearing different experiences is interesting though, so comment down below how much you spent on grad school apps in total and what you spent your money on.",6,5,20.051916084695193,GradSchool
Graduate student union,"Hi all! A lot of negative things have been going on at my Uni/college. And the grad students realize we have no one to go. It’s too much to get into on a post, but I wanted to ask if anyone here is in a program in which your grad students are unionized? Please send me a dm, as I have questions about how the union helps you and (if you know) how the students unionized.

Thanks!

Edit: it looks like different states have different laws around whether or not grad students can unionize. However, I can’t find a list of what states allow it",4,3,20.009890621732232,GradSchool
I am about to make the greatest decision ever.,"My advisor is so quick to dismiss my ideas. “That’s not relevant,” “that’s not publishable,” “don’t waste your time,” “what is the significance?” That’s just the surface.

Last semester I took two very heavy classes, and he suggested them. On top of that, I was his TA. In March, he put me on a new project and expected basically immediate deliverables. I told him my classes were taking up all my time and that in order to keep the minimum gpa requirement for the project I need to put more focus on my classes. Once the summer hit, I tried to close the gap between where I was and where the project was, but both I and the project were moving forward. It was far too overwhelming. At that point, I was just doing what they told me to do on top of what they’ve already done while I was trying to keep my head above the water.

My advisor said that because of my lack of contribution he didn’t want to completely dismiss me so he wanted to talk about options. For this project, he’d only to continue to support me if I step down as an MS student because “you’re not being a PhD student; you’re doing what you’re told; you’re being a technician. Consider this your last chance.” He was also the source of a lot of drama and miscommunication. His approach was “throw her into the pool and expect her to learn to swim.” But I was in a condition where I was already drowning as is.

I consulted the grad office. I made sure I had nothing to lose. The thing about my university is I can switch back to PhD anytime I want to. So...to be funded, I temporarily stepped down.

I recently took an interest in another direction of research. I talked to one of the professors of a class I’m taking. He apparently is currently doing research in that area. That professor is a world renowned physicist. Very famous. When I told him about my position and warned him of my lack of experience, he said he will actively work with me, not against me. When I told him about how my ideas get dismissed, he knew exactly who I was talking about and said “yeah he is very close minded.” The cherry on top is I can actively practice my Hungarian too! (My fiancé and I plan to spend part of our honeymoon in Budapest.)

Not only did he listen to my ideas, but he said “let’s turn these into publications!” and “let’s write a proposal!”

He also said he’ll help me reach my target in graduating in two years because I already wasted 2.5 years. He also said my current experience helps tremendously.

Thank you for listening to my relief. :)",40,717,21.256186918028526,GradSchool
Is anyone willing to give me feedbacks about my motivation letter?,"Hi I'm a master student in mechanical engineering (specialize in robotics and control). I want to do a semester exchange at ETH Zurich, however, in the application guidline, very little was mentioned regarding the motivation letter, so I went to the grad school application website and took their guidlines as a reference. 

Write an essay in English with no more than 1 page including:

 \- reason for choosing this program/major/university

 \- academic experiences

 \- setting goals

DM me if you're willing to help and I'll forward you the link!

I can't offer much in return, but feel free to ask and I'll try withing my ability.",0,0,19.781210066176676,GradSchool
Telling your advisor you want to leave graduate school,"Hi, 

I often see posts on here about people leaving graduate school. I am currently in this position. I'm in my 3rd year of a PhD program, and I have obtained a Masters in another field (In a semi-related field, I'll say). Long story short, I have been struggling with depression and suicidal ideations for quite some time now since entering this PhD program. This stems from the fact that I feel PhD/academia life is simply not for me. I love the content my program, the faculty, my classmates & cohort. But the overall idea of academic work life depresses me in magnitudes I cannot explain.  I am uncomfortable with teaching and sitting down to write a manuscript is great at giving me thoughts of suicide.  I've talked with family, friends (outside of my cohort) & a therapist about this, but no one in my department is aware. I have so many fears of how this will affect people's perceptions of me. 

***As you may have gathered, I think it's time for me to take steps towards leaving graduate school.*** 

I need to start by disclosing to my advisor, right? This seems best to me. My advisor is aware I have struggles in mental health, but not the severity my mental health status. I do feel we have a good relationship. In fact, she was the reason I started my PhD program - I worked with her two years prior to becoming her official graduate mentee (I've known her for 5 years now). My hope is she will be understanding, but I am prepared for anything. I do always finish my work for her and I have worked/accomplished various tasks in our lab. But, I can't express what it is like to go home and simply feel empty and dead inside... For \~2 years now. I've tried, believe me, I've tried to work through this - But I need to accept that it is my time to leave. I love the thought of academia, not the actual participation.

I can't help but feel this conversation will be coming out of left field for her. How do I set up this meeting? I know it must start with an email, but how clear should I be in this email about what the conversation is about? To be quite honest, I don't know if I can have a face-to-face conversation without crying (I cry a lot in my current state). I am prepared for a slow transition out, I have accepted the inevitability of finishing up my semester, as much as I cannot bear the thought. I want to prepare her to hand off tasks. I am prepared to take a ""leave of absence"" if it is offered, but I cannot make any promises that I ever want to return to academia. I also have a lot of connections here on campus that I need to inform, but feel the intense desire to tell my advisor first.

Also, I do *not* plan on telling my advisor about my suicidal ideations - I have read that this only leads to a messy situation. However, I want to make it clear that my mental health is at stake.   


Thanks so much for listening. I really appreciate anything.",2,2,19.964798029139637,GradSchool
Neat tricks for literature search,,1,9,20.397714695806307,GradSchool
can anyone give feedback for my motivation letter,"Hi I'm a master student in mechanical engineering (specialize in robotics and control). I want to do a semester exchange at ETH Zurich, however, in the application guidline, very little was mentioned regarding the motivation letter, so I went to the grad school application website and took their guidlines as a reference.

Write an essay in English with no more than 1 page including:

\- reason for choosing this program/major/university

\- academic experiences

\- setting goals

I already asked a couple of friends to review it, so if you're not from a related field, grammar or spelling check would also be very useful. Just DM me if you're willing to help and I'll forward you the link!

I can't offer much in return, but feel free to ask and I'll try withing my ability.",0,0,19.778906825435932,GradSchool
"Co-Adviser not communicating with each other, i'm lost.","I am a second year PhD student in the US so I am in the process of exploring and forming my new project.

I have two advisers, the project came from prof As lab. But prof A is very hands off and changes his damn mind about what the focus of the project is every time we meet. Prof B is hands on, but it's not really his project so he is letting me lead the way. Prof B does NOT seem to be communicating with prof A as he has no idea what the point of the project is. To be honest, i'm not sure I know anymore either because prof A is so busy and scatter brained.   


Should I just form a project myself and stop waiting for prof A to approve? How do I facilitate prof A and B working together to help me? (Schedule meetings with the both of them together frequently?) 

How do I not go nuts trying to wrangle the ideas of two people when I have no idea what i'm doing. I just need some guidance. I nee someone to tell me what to do... Im not an expert yet and need some help starting a project. Once there is at least one clear mile post I can focus on that and then plan for the next mile post and the next and slowly make progress. But god damn which ROAD AM I EVEN ON?",2,2,20.0996822883989,GradSchool
Planning and balance,How do you manage your coursework and life in general? Feel like I’m slipping through the cracks and my anxiety is constantly being triggered. Kind of worried. It’s my first semester in grad school.,2,2,20.137656825435936,GradSchool
Interim Postdoc/Pre-postdoc appointment and conferral date issue,,0,1,20.084612843954453,GradSchool
"Six students, one office",I’m wondering if anyone knows of any USA state/federal laws pertaining to number of people allowed in one office or people per square foot of space). With an influx of new grad students there’s now 6 of us packed into a single office (same size room as one faculty member’s office). And it’s extremely hard to focus with us breathing down each other’s necks. Of course I can go work elsewhere but nothing beats your own permanent space. I’d love to go to the departments administration about this but they won’t be responsive unless they’re breaking OSHA laws or something. Anyone have experience with this? Is fighting this a lost cause?,4,1,20.10824710321371,GradSchool
Thesis writing,"Hi!


I’m a baby bachelor student writing a bachelor’s thesis and I’m posting here because, well, I couldn’t find a subreddit for bachelor students. 


I’m originally from France but I had the great, great idea to go study abroad in Sweden where the writing of a thesis is required at the end of every cycle. 


I wrote my thesis in political science. Because of a variety of issues (lost my jobs, lost my apartment, couldn’t find a new one, had to move out of Sweden, broke up with my partner... you name it) I did not submit my thesis in time and I therefore did not get any supervision beyond the “formulating a thesis idea” phase. 


I first submitted my thesis in the summer and failed. Everybody else who first submitted their thesis in the summer without having gotten proper supervision, also failed. The comments I received were however encouraging and I fixed everything that needed fixing. 


However. My thesis made me borderline crazy and I can’t stand to look at it anymore. Whenever I would try and read it to see if it made sense, flowed properly, or had any mistakes and errors, it felt like reading in a completely foreign language.


I have no idea if my work is good. I have no idea if the logical process behind my work is directly intelligible. I know for a fact that the theory I picked wasn’t the best fit for my research–although my examiners said otherwise–and I had trouble trying to justify it through my essay. 


If I fail this time, too, I will get a very last chance, which is why I am fishing for advice here, so that I can wait for my results in peace. 


This thesis writing process made me realize that research isn’t my cup of tea. Writing 50 pages is extremely frustrating, I love writing less, I love writing more, but it felt like putting a duvet back into the sleeping bag the entire time. However, I pretty much have to keep going if I want to find work in my field. Should’ve been a baker instead but here I am. 


Would anybody here know how to better a dissertation when it feels like gibberish from looking at it all too much?

Thanks in advance!",5,4,20.430122103213712,GradSchool
Leaving Master's program early,"Hi all, 

Will leaving a master's program early (even if I'm in good standing- good grades/student, good relationships with faculty) be looked upon poorly when applying to other programs? For reference, I'm going to be applying for clinical psychology PhD/PsyD programs in the near future, but my general MS program I'm currently enrolled in is not working out for me. Anyone else have similar experiences or advice?",0,3,20.36536515876927,GradSchool
Tablet/ereader for PDFs?,"I recently started a master's program, and I find myself reading a lot of textbooks, but also readings and papers distributed as PDFs. I don't find reading them on my laptop or phone very convenient or ergonomically pleasing, so I was considering buying a tablet or ereader for the purpose. I was wondering if other students had recommendations for devices they use to read PDFs.

The ability to annotate via touch screen is not necessary for me, but the ability to take occasional notes somehow (a bookmark here, a text annotation there) would be good.",2,2,20.28273784395445,GradSchool
How did you decide grad school was what you wanted to do?,"Graduated from Washington University in St. Louis this past May, where I spent my senior year working on my honors thesis, on the Taiping Civil War (specifically how Qing propaganda affected understandings of rebel confessions), and really enjoyed the process.  It was obviously stressful, but one of the more fulfilling projects I've had the chance to work on in my 22 years.  Thought a lot about applying to grad school during this process and at the end of the day decided not to, due in some part to my lack of some necessary skills (my understanding of Mandarin is nowhere near where it would have to be to succeed in a China-based field) and a feeling that I should probably take some time off to figure out what it is about Academia that I really love.  Four months later, and a month into my first job, and I'm pretty sure I want to go back!  A big problem for me thought is that I no longer quite know what for.  I still really love what I focused on in undergrad, but have also realized that there are a lot of other things I'm interested in, some within the realm of History and other things that aren't.  I know I want to return to the learning environment I felt surrounded by in school, something I can't seem to spot anywhere in the professional world.  How did you know grad school was right for you?  Worried that I'm going to rush into applying just because I miss a vague feeling that grad school may or may not fulfill!",2,0,20.128061918028525,GradSchool
Meeting potential PhD supervisor,"Hello!

After some back and forth with a potential PhD supervisor (immunology related), I finally met him to discuss his research a few weeks ago. I was really quite interested by the potential projects he listed and have sort of decided that I'd want to work with him should I get admitted.

I'm meeting him tomorrow to discuss the details of a project (topic still unknown to me) and I'm wondering what exactly should I prepare? I don't have an extensive background in immunology per say. A lot of the advice I've read and heard seemed to imply that the prof will use this time to see if I'm a good fit. 

I was overcome with nerves the first time I met him and basically acted like I had no working brain cells. I don't really want the same thing to happen this time round but I'm not too sure if it's even possible haha. 

Tldr; meeting prof to discuss details of a project tomorrow, not sure how much background I need to show/have or if any prep work is required of me.

Edit: is it rude if i take notes on an ipad or is pen and paper better?",6,6,20.56577025136186,GradSchool
I forget most of what I read. Does anyone have a good literature-reading strategy?,"I try to read fairly regularly, but looking back, I find that I forget the vast majority of what I read, *especially* when the papers are mediocre.  When there is a ""holy shit"" study, I tend to remember things much better, but even then, I only remember the overall gist of what was done.

Can we have a little discussion here about:

1)  How many of you have the same experience as I do forgetting literature that you have read?

2)  How much reading of literature really makes sense, given that most will be forgotten?  (assuming that forgetting lit is not something unique to me)

3)  For the literature that is significant and useful, should there be additional steps to really cement it into memory, or is having an overall gist good enough?

4)  How much information should we attempt to remember about mediocre papers?",3,1,20.161881362472972,GradSchool
Does it look bad to employers if you take a year off working to get MBA?,"Hi, 

I'm planning on getting my MBA for a year overseas (full-time). I'm new to all of this, I've been out of school and in the professional field for 6+ years now, I just didn't know if it was a con for a potential future employer seeing that I took a year off to go to school. Anybody have any insight on this?",4,1,20.17855960321371,GradSchool
Miller Analogies Test - How did you practice scores compare to actual score?,Taking it tomorrow and my practice tests have been really quite good. My Kaplan practice test scores have been a little lower (for me) while my official Pearson practices have been sky high. Just curious what actual experiences have been like since I cant seem to meet anyone IRL who has actually taken this test.,1,0,20.290781825435936,GradSchool
Should I let me supervisor know that I am going to start to see a therapist?,"For a few months I feel that my mental health is deteriorating. First, I thought it's just a bad phase which will pass eventually. But it has been more than 3 months and it seems that things are getting worse. This is affecting my research making it difficult to focus. I'm not sure if I am suffering from depression or anxiety, but I think it's better to seek counseling. I have an appointment with a therapist next week. I'm wondering if I should let my supervisor know about this. Just to clarify, my supervisor is in no way responsible for my condition. He is very nice and does not force me to work too much. I think my anxiety is due to some of the things I should be able to control. Only somehow I am failing to do so on my own. I would appreciate any advice. Thanks.",9,5,20.90604802913964,GradSchool
Serious question — how am I supposed to write a research proposal without any access to research?,"Ok maybe this will end up being a super dumb question that has an obvious solution that I was entirely oblivious to.

I have decided I want to back to university (UK) and study a research masters and subsequently (if all goes to plan) a PhD in human geography. The programs I’m looking to apply to require you to submit a research proposal with your application. The idea being you go into your application with a firm(ish) grasp on what your research field and research question is.

I have two ideas I’m looking into at the moment and am wanting to do some reading to identify gaps in literature and some questions I could delve into as well as get some background theory. 

The issue is: how the hell am I supposed to do any of that when I can’t access any papers/journals/articles online because they all require institutional logins/paid access?!

Am I being daft? Is there some easy way to access articles? I had access when I was doing my undergrad through my university’s login but now I’m alumni I can’t read past the abstract on a single paper!

Help?",6,4,20.87842071432482,GradSchool
"Define ""research""","I often work with people who are absolutely mystified as to what exactly ""research"" is. I have my own ways of describing what I do, but I am curious. How do you describe your research or define research?",2,3,20.93505265876927,GradSchool
1 month in and I'm already beginning to drown,"I knew grad school would be hard, but it seems I severely underestimated just how much. I feel like being an international student makes things harder than they need to be too.  

My first week here, I decided I'd eat healthy, exercise, and start talking to professors. I did all three, but none of the profs responded (ever). 

By the second week I'd already given up on eating healthy. I noticed others getting meetings with professors and a few already having found advisors. Some mentioned they'd be taking independent studies with a professor. I had one professor (X) contact me and I discussed one of her projects with her, which seemed interesting. While her research interests don't align with mine at all, this specific project was pretty interesting, and I guess that combined with the horrible panic of not having an advisor made me swap a course to an independent study with her.  

Week 3, I have chance meetings with some other professors, and they agree to set up meetings. I met one (Y), and he said he'd work with me this semester to try things out, but that I should take his advanced course, so I swapped another course to this one (now I have an advanced graduate course and an independent study). He tells me to read some papers on a topic and see if I might be able to implement them. 

Through poor scheduling, I didn't have a lot to show him next week, but he didn't seem to mind. The same week, I went to a lab meeting with prof. X, where we discussed more projects and I told her what I wanted to work on. She essentially told me that since I'm not an undergrad anymore, I should completely be in charge and decide how to proceed.

This past week, I wrote up a proposal for what I wanted to do for the prof. X's project, which I'll show her in a meeting tomorrow. I had also finished reading the 6 papers that I found for the prof Y, and I made notes on the papers along with possible ideas. I went to him with these ideas, except that he couldn't care less. He really only wanted where they were published, the runtime of the code, and if I could execute them. When I started talking about my ideas for the first paper, he simply cut me off and said, ""Next!"" (as in, move to the next paper).  

I feel like I'm back at square one. I don't know who I want as an advisor anymore. Prof X is a little intimidating, and her research interests don't align with mine anyway. Prof Y is really nice (and last week when I met him, he was the one who had asked to meet, so when I asked why he wanted to meet, he simply went, ""Oh, because I like you""), so I was shocked how dismissive he was today. I have a meeting with another professor tomorrow, but I'm not sure how that'll work out. And all through these weeks, I've been getting rejections for 3 papers that I had worked on with my undergrad advisor, which didn't help at all.  

At this point I just feel like I don't belong here and that I somehow wandered into a swimming pool where everybody somehow just knows how to swim.",2,10,21.097934603213712,GradSchool
"Has anyone done a Masters in Public Health (Australia)? If so, what was the program like and what kind of careers are out there?","Graduated in 2015 with a Bachelors in Science,  Physiology Major from the University of Western Australia, been self employed helping the family business but want to get into the health/medical industry again. The MPH programs I’ve come across within the state seem to be really good, however my uncertainty is how broad they are. Other than the technical skills gained through Biostats and Epidemiology, I am unsure if the rest of the programs enable the students to be job/industry ready upon graduation. Any advice would be greatly appreciated!",0,2,20.812876732843343,GradSchool
Felony Conviction Box on Apps,"Long story short, I am in the process of applying to graduate school for PhD programs in Environmental/ Natural Resource Economics. I have corresponded with my choice program (PERFECT research interest fit), and was told that I would be accepted based on my stats (although funding would be competitive). Now while formally filling out the application, I found the dreaded felony conviction check box.

&#x200B;

I have one conviction for 5 felonies. My sole arrest in my life. It was an arrest for the armed robbery of a drug dealer and related charges (conspiracy, fire arm possession, etc). I spent my time in prison and have done well since. Obviously I will explain in the space provided.

&#x200B;

My question is, though, is that check box typically an automatic dis qualifier?  Does that throw the application right in the trash? And if not for admissions what about funding?

&#x200B;

Any anecdotes or information from those on admission committees is greatly appreciated.",17,2,20.894554973584082,GradSchool
"I knew the transition to grad school would be hard, but it's even harder than I thought",This is mainly just me venting but dang grad school is a whole different ball game from undergrad. I knew it would be tough and a lot of work but I feel like I'm constantly working and yet not absorbing or learning the material well enough. My semester is already 1/4 of the way over and I feel like I've accomplished nothing. I keep missing things in readings/class discussions that everyone else seems to get and I just feel stupid all the time :/,28,147,21.880666084695193,GradSchool
Master Thesis Buddy,"Hello,   
I am currently writing my master thesis but I have no motivation. So, I would like to talk to someone who is in the same boat. It would be nice to exchange words about the progress, difficulties or whatever.   
And maybe we can find our lost motivation together :)",5,6,21.17167302913964,GradSchool
"Does anyone here time track? How much time do you spend per day, on average, doing focused work?","By time tracking, I mean setting timers to record the amount of time spent on certain tasks/projects.

I track the amount of time I spend *concentrated* on solo work, and find that on a typical work day I'll get to about 4 hours of work done (I switch the timer off when I take breaks e.g. visit to the washroom, refill my bottle). Not including meetings or classes.

But 4 hours seems a little low to me... Would love to compare this to anyone else tracking their time.",5,6,21.229173029139638,GradSchool
Looking for a term: what are review articles called in gender or queer studies? (x-post r/academia and r/askacademia),"One of my friends has what I would call a review article they could publish. Sometimes they are called state of the field, state of the art, literature review article, or historiographies. Climate science has an entire journal devoted to just this type of article. However, I cannot find this category of article submission in gender or queer studies journals. Is there a name for this specific to that field? I have seen options for viewpoint and forum articles, are these what I am looking for?

&#x200B;

Thanks for any help you can give.",0,1,20.882182288398898,GradSchool
SUNY Buffalo taking an L,,3,6,21.287865158769268,GradSchool
Second year transitioning anxiety,"I feel like I just need to post this to get it out in writing, so apologies if people see my name and think “ugh this guy again.”

The 53rd week of my PhD program was last month officially marking the second year of my program, and the next term begins this Thursday. It should hopefully be my last term of classes and then I can take my quals come winter. At the beginning of the summer I felt so lost as it was my first time ever working 40-50 hours a week as simply a “researcher” and not as a “student doing research.” By the end of the summer i felt like i had finally started getting into a rhythm with work, having realistic standards of my performance, etc... Now that classes are starting back up my chest feels tight because it’s going to more than double my weekly workload and I’m ~freaking out~

Anyone else know this feeling? Kind of like a regression but flinging yourself forward and it just makes your chest feel kind of tight?",3,5,21.364566547658157,GradSchool
Has anyone applied for materials science and engineering masters of PhDs?,"I am intended to apply for MSE graduate degrees, but there is no undergraduate MSE department in our college. Hence I would like to ask about the advices and tips for masters or PhD applications of MSE grad schools, including GPA, test scores and most importantly research experiences. Unfortunately my current research field has barely anything to do with materials.",2,1,20.932992473584083,GradSchool
"Quiz: how green is your lab? Green lab programmes, in collaboration with the scientific community, are working to address lab-sustainability topics to minimize the environmental and social footprint of research.",,2,5,21.371348955065564,GradSchool
Do leadership positions/membership in clubs help with grad school admission?,"So basically we have these student organizations in UT Austin that I think are synonymous with clubs? 

There's a couple of organizations related to my major in physics (Undergraduate Women in Physics, Society of Physics Students, etc.) who basically ""provide a supportive community whose members share their experiences, advice, and ideas. We provide our members with outreach opportunities both within UT and the greater Austin area as well as resources for developing their future careers,"" whatever that means. There are like officers and roles in these clubs, too.

Would being in these clubs improve my grad school admission prospects?",4,0,21.03258738099149,GradSchool
Low Undergrad GPA *sighs*,"So my dream has always been to continue pursuing higher education but I really messed up in undergrad because basically, I stopped caring.

I was admitted to a prestigious university for undergrad, but I struggled due to family issues. My mother was terminally ill all throughout my first year and it was hard moving all alone to a different country. During the end of my first year, she was in the ICU and during my finals, I had to fly to my home country because she was about to pass away. It really killed me because she and I were the closest amongst my immediate family. I already was doing really poorly my first year and after her death it wasn't improving. I began to party every night and drink to drown my sorrows.

I still managed to graduate with a bachelor of science on time, and my GPA did slowly improve after the end of my second year, but I still ended up with a CGPA of 2.55.

Currently I am working at one of the best hospitals in the U.S and luckily managed to get a GRE of 165/156 (321). Right now, I am trying to get solid recommendations, and finish up my essays, but I was just wondering is there any hope for me to get admitted to a top 30 U.S school?

If anyone could provide some information or answers to my questions that would be fantastic! Thanks a ton!",4,0,21.042367473584083,GradSchool
Does anyone else feel like there is no chance they will get their master's done in 2 years?,"I just started my master's. My advisor had a project for me before I started, so I got a field season in before my first semester of classes. This project is huge, daunting, and I'm not even sure if it'll qualify me for the degree I want. My advisor has been discussing field seasons into the summer of 2021 (my expected graduation date is May 2021), and I'm not sure what to do, because this project deserves the time and attention of someone who can do the work to figure it out.

Is anyone else in a similar situation?",10,6,21.484335066176676,GradSchool
Best Planner: App or Hand-written?,"I'm a fourth year graduate student in a Chemistry PhD program. I didn't really use a planner before graduate school, and now I feel so lost at work without it. Seriously had a breakdown in the middle of the summer when I lost my old one and tried using a regular notebook waiting for a new planner from Amazon. 

I do it hand-written because I feel like I remember my schedule better, but sometimes it's really inconvenient since it's usually at my desk. I would like to use an app/electronic calendar, but all the apps I've seen are very rigid. They want a time and date for everything, but a lot of times I just want to write down the task as a To-Do that can be flexible or as something that is done through out the day without planning every detail (example: if I'm running a purification for a protein, I dont want to necessarily write out every step of my purification, just to know that I'm running the purification on that day). 

I know this a personal preference thing, but is there anyone out there who could suggest an app (Android/Windows)? Or is anyone out there who advocates for the hand-written option?",10,3,21.30141839951001,GradSchool
I made a bot that writes a research abstract with you (trained on 200k papers),"I've been a little obsessed with training machine learning on datasets and made a bot that tries to write research abstracts with you (amongst ... other things). 

I'll be the first to admit, the science terms it generates isn't always real (but sometimes is, it really likes to use Gauss-Newton) and it can make up fake sounding algorithms, but I hope you can get to use it as a way to brainstorm. Okay, it's probably more for laughs than of practical. 

[Research Abstract Generation Bot](https://writeup.ai/research)",55,492,22.48210126988038,GradSchool
Working half-time during PhD?,"Hello all,

I’m applying for PhD programs in bioinformatics this fall with the intention to begin classes next fall. I’m currently working in industry full time, and already have a masters in an unrelated field. After discussing with my supervisor, I’ve been fortunate enough to work at a very flexible organization who would be amenable to my working half time (20 hr weeks) once I begin. Has anyone done this, working half-time in a career while taking PhD classes and hopefully eventually doing research towards a thesis? Is this the stupidest idea I’ve ever had?

Obviously I have a lot of time to figure this kind of stuff out, as I won’t be starting for a year.",9,3,21.39980960321371,GradSchool
How much do you read daily in diss research mode?,"I am newly ABD in a hybrid social science/humanities field, but still primarily researching the literature, pre fieldwork. I have a ton of stuff to read and the list only seems to grow. I can finish getting what I need from a book in about a day (a few hours, so depending on the book I can go through maybe two or three), and probably a handful of articles otherwise. However, my reading and synthesizing is constantly underpinned by this gut-curdling anxiety that I am not ""doing"" enough everyday to be able to defend my dissertation in \~20 months (my imposed timeline). I realize that everyone's journey and stack-o'-documents to parse through is different depending on the project, but I was hoping to hear what your average daily workload was/is like during the research and early writing stages of your dissertation. For instance, how many books and articles did you find yourself going through per week, or per day?

Just looking for a little peace of mind, or...something.",1,1,21.22548089951001,GradSchool
Should I go for a MS or a PhD? And what are my chances?,"I have been conflicted lately if I should go for my MS first or go straight for a PhD. I am certain that I want to get my PhD, however I do not know if I can even get into a good PhD program with my comparably sub par research experience. I feel like my CV may look fine enough for a MS program but not quite yet for a PhD program.

Due to open graduate student position opportunities (aligning with my research interests) at these two schools, I have been looking at Ohio State University and Penn State University. Could someone give me their brutally honest opinion on whether or not I should just go for a MS over a PhD and also my chances of getting into one of these schools' ecology or environmental science-related PhD programs?

Here is a run-down of what my experiences and other info looks like:

**Research**

* Research Assistant for one summer in a toxicology lab assisting with studies on mountain-top mining bioaccumulation in mayflies
* Undergraduate research for about a year (with a grant from my university's office of undergraduate research grant) with two other people (grad student and another undergrad) doing tests on mesocosms with floating islands and testing different methods to examine nutrient uptake potentials. Since I got the grant with my friend, the other undergrad, I don't know if I should list this on my CV as ""independent research""
* Independent undergraduate research one summer through a NSF REU program at a university. I designed my own project on mercury cycling in the St. Lawrence River, conducted the experiments, and presented at that university's conference
* No thesis experience, in case that affects anything

**Conference Experience**

* Just one conference at that university's research and creativity symposium

**Awards and GPA:**

* Best undergraduate oral presentation award
* Best undergraduate poster presentation in sustainability award
* Grant for $1,000 for the above project
* GPA: 3.91

**Teaching Experience**

* No TA experience, but I did teach environmental science to 8th graders for a few months

**Publications**

* No publications; my professor from my REU says I will be listed as a co-author for the paper his masters student is writing, but it won't be done until next May, and I apply to grad schools in December

Any honest feedback would be greatly appreciated! I feel as if my experiences are very mediocre and less compared to some of my peers who got into a PhD program have CVs full of conference experiences, research experiences, TA experiences, some publications, thesis experience, and many various scholarships. I know I shouldn't compare myself to others, but I just want to know if Ohio State or Penn State's environmental-related PhD program would see me as a competitive candidate.",6,2,21.41891839951001,GradSchool
"Any help is highly appreciated, thanks!",,0,1,21.263119788398896,GradSchool
Grad Student Stipend Spreadsheet?,"Hello, I remember seeing a google spreadsheet on here comparing the graduate student stipends across the US, and also listing the fees, health insurance costs, etc., but for the life of me I cannot find it again. 

Maybe this isn't the right place to ask, but does anyone know where I can find that spreadsheet? Thanks!",3,16,21.9246359921026,GradSchool
Tips for quickly extracting information from review papers,"Hi there. I'm in clinical psych, and I'm being assigned hundreds of pages per week of review papers. The old read the abstract, look at figures, and skim the discussion isn't quite working b/c we aren't reading empirical articles. Any tips on getting through review papers as quickly as possible?",1,7,21.936661455065565,GradSchool
Eternal Debate: Academia vs Industry,"I’m currently in my second year of STEM PhD work, and just successfully defended my prelim. I really enjoy my project and research in general, and I’ve been generally feeling like I’d like to go into academia once I’m done. I generally enjoy interacting with students, don’t mind the grading and that work, and want to continue in research. However, more recently the debate has been growing in my head that maybe industry is a better option. Here’s why: while I’ve been productive in my research thus far and have gotten promising initial results according to my advisor, I’ve struggled with and don’t enjoy writing. I don’t think I would enjoy the constant grant writing and pressure to publish. I know it’s critical to publish to go into academia. Are there advantages to going into academia instead of industry? I am married and do not want to go into a postdoc because I want somewhere stable to go to start our family.

To me it’s like this: 
Academia: you’re in leading edge of research, get to interact with students but extreme pressure to publish meaningful results and get more funding. Pay is good but unless you achieve tenure it is not necessarily stable.

Industry: narrower research field if in research, but more stable. Pay can be good. 

Any advice?",10,4,21.973455436547045,GradSchool
"Honestly, how much does the program you pick matter?","Lets assume all things are equal.

You have at least 2 advisors that are knowledgeable in your area of interest within your field. 
You've got funding at all options. 
Whatever else we take into consideration, I'm too tired to really get into the grit.

The only difference is...one school is Ivy League, one school is a top state school, one is a mid-tier state school, one is some hum-dink school, I don't know. 

Really what I'm getting at, does the prestigiousity (not a word) of the school really matter that much? Should we care that much? Did ranking of your program come into consideration when you were picking your program? Why or why not? As I look forward at my PhD and where I'm thinking of applying, I feel more closely aligned with present quality of life choices compared to the long-term impact of being in a well-known program, and I'm wondering how people weigh the two against each other? Is taking some sacrifices worth being in a big name school?",14,3,21.892413769880378,GradSchool
How do I meet people after grad school?,"Hey y’all, I just finished my masters and I was wondering if anyone here could give me some constructive advice on how to meet people after grad school. I didn’t make any friends in grad school and I’m hoping for my social life to get better. I’ve tried some rev league sports but so far I’ve had little luck. Also I’m not especially interested in meeting people through the internet",3,4,21.98918460321371,GradSchool
When is it appropriate to talk to your department chair about concerns about a professor's teaching?,"Apologies, on mobile. 

I'm currently taking an American Government class that is required for my Master's. I've heard word circulate among the grad students that the professor is not good. I was talking with a professor I work closely with and she was surprised and confused to hear that Prof was teaching this course. Prof also teaches the 8000 'how to be a social scientist' class and I was told I was lucky to not have to take the class with Prof because half the class failed the last semester. Prof is not tenured, he has told us that he's been here 15 years and this is his first tenure-track job. I've got a feeling due to some things going on that Prof may already be being monitored by the department.

Being a social science, we usually do a lot of discussion. Not in this class. We break up into groups and each take a chapter from the assigned book and pull out the ""what's important"" about it. The Professor openly disagress with some of the thoughts of the authors we read, which I get why that's important, but it's hard to disagree with these larger ideas when you don't even know what you're supposed to be learning/don't have the knowledge yet to disagree with the professor. I (and others in the class) are struggling to learn in class and honestly this is one of the few times I've been more scared of not learning anything than failing. 

Since Prof likely isn't tenured, is it worth it to talk to the department chair about the class? I recognize these aren't egregious, but this is supposed to be Masters level work. Our book are really old too, I'm talking 2002/2003 talking about the presidency. I feel like the theories are no longer relevant and we don't have supplemental readings that are more recent.",3,3,21.934045714324824,GradSchool
Advice for a newbie TA?,"I'm really excited to TA intro to diffy qs (a pretty basic math course for physical sci and math undergrads). I'm glad I'll have a job especially since my MS doesn't come cheap as an international student (thanks mom and dad!). 

I want to make sure I do the best possible job, and wanted to know what you guys had to say about being a TA and how not to mess it up. Also, if you have advice for managing time and your grad school work with your TA work, that would be nice too! Is there anything I should look out for in terms of the scope and terms of my job so I dont lose more time and money than I should?

Any advice is welcome and appreciated! Thanks!",1,2,21.903085066176676,GradSchool
How deep should you cite ?,"I am sure this has been asked but here you go again:

Say if I am doing some lit review in my paper and I read in Paper A that the effect X is caused by Y (Paper A basically cites Paper B for this statement). In this case, should I go read Paper B and cite it instead ? Because I kinda wanna repeat that X caused by Y statement, I felt like it makes no difference to cite Paper A instead of Paper B.

My understanding is that unless it is sth fundamental or theoretical, I don't have to go to the source paper. Any thoughts?",8,2,21.91840914025075,GradSchool
Writing first manuscript ever! I am in a wildlife ecology program so will be submitting to journal related to ecology/biology/wildlife/conservation. How did you decide what figures should go in the main text versus the appendix versus supplementary material?,"I am most interested in how to decide what goes in the appendix versus supplementary material? Or are they the same thing? 

Thank you for the help!",2,3,22.05693923284334,GradSchool
How do you make friends in grad school when your program is online?,"Hi r/GradSchool, first year M.Ed student here. 

Over the summer after I graduated from undergrad, I was offered an assistantship that provides free graduate school. My assistantship has its ups and downs, but I am adjusting to it. The graduate program I am enrolled in is 100% online, and I have no social life. I work primarily alone in my role, and I don't know anyone in the program because it is online so I find myself spending every night alone. I am not allowed to become friends with undergraduate students, as I am considered staff even though I am pretty much the same age as most undergrads. How the heck do I make friends? Am I just doomed for the next two years? I feel like I am stuck, I know no one else in grad school and I am having a tough time adjusting with no social interaction.",5,0,21.81352488099149,GradSchool
Trump-appointed majority on National Labor Relations Boards begins process to remove graduate students’ right to unionize,,9,12,22.465052658769267,GradSchool
How do I decide what lectures/meetings/colloquia I should go to?,"Looking at my schedule for the upcoming year, there's loads of stuff I *could* do and probably *should* do, but I know that if I tried to do it all, I'd just die. Even after just narrowing it down to things directly relevant to my thesis, I'm looking at, per week:

 - 5 hours of group meetings and journal clubs: all relevant to part of my thesis

 - 4 hours of seminars and colloquia given by the department: I have to attend to clean up afterwards anyway

 - 1 hour for student seminar: practicing giving talks

 - 1-2 hours for outreach: effectively required for my funding

 - ~3-4 hours for lectures (even more for homework): bare minimum of classes I didn't get to do in undergrad, needed to start a theory PhD

 - ~3-4 hours for supervisions: having some tutoring/teaching experience would be useful for the job market

So given that I need to have my degree handed in after 3 years, I know I need to work really hard and I don't know if this kind of schedule is going to screw me over. I was hoping to add more statistics and computing on since I'm kinda weak in both areas, but that'd be another 2 classes and put me up another 3-4 hours a week in lectures alone. Having 8-week terms means classes are really intensive. 

And this is really the bare minimum I could get it down to if I just wanted to satisfy my thesis, but I feel like I *should* learn more about other areas too, or will colloquia really be enough? 

I'd like to not be working 9am-8pm as well, I was hoping to get a better work-life balance going and stay a bit healthier. I'm genuinely concerned that this is going to be more than I can handle. I'll talk to my supervisor about it when he gets back, but also wanted to get all of your opinions too (especially if you're on a 3-year programme!)",1,5,22.286406825435932,GradSchool
Does anyone else feel like their PhD thesis is underwhelming?,"I'm in the middle of writing and I'm just feeling a little underwhelmed by my work. It's a new method for an application area and I believe it's impactful enough, as people in this area seem to be interested and my committee seems satisfied.  

However, during the writing of the thesis it just feels very underwhelming. When I think about a PhD thesis, I imagine a huge document with dozens of proofs, and a very high level of technical complexity. This isn't like that at all. An undergrad could understand the mathematical parts. Being an application area, there are zero proofs.

It just feels like I'm cheating out the PhD by picking an application area which doesn't require me to provide a lot of theoretical rigor. Can anyone relate?",33,228,23.15446238099149,GradSchool
How can I better support my PhD candidate spouse as the defense date approaches?,I'll keep this short and sweet- my spouse is nearing his defense date and he is worn out emotionally and mentally so often. I do what I can to help at home and support him. I'm hoping for suggestions I haven't thought of. Thank you for your insight!,5,2,22.125862843954454,GradSchool
Exploitation in the wrong areas,"I am going on my tenth hour of grading Exam 1 so bare with me. While grading all I can think about is the other stuff I have to do in order to get myself back into lab. ""Lab"": the place where you do the real work that actually contributes to your dissertation. It is great that being a TA allows me an opportunity to be paid while being educated but...thats complete bull shit marketing that profs and admin spew.

I am a fourth year org.chem. student and I spent a few years in industry in-between undergrad and grad schools. So I am a fully trained lab manager in my group at this point. I train new students, I manage multiple projects, I create new knowledge, and I push our group forward with my lab work (not always, but at least 20% of the time). The dept as a whole is the third largest revenue source for the university (1. Football 2. gymnastics). Our department pulls in multi million dollar grants, half of which ends up at the grad college (or where ever) in ""Overhead"" as the grant money comes in. This is research that rests on the motivation and drive of grad students not unlike myself.  

So as I sit here, I keep wondering why the fuck I am not being sponsored by the department to strictly do research? There is no reason I should be forced into a TA spot as a 4th year; it seems to me, the university would benefit greatly by sponsoring research assistant-ships that will actually bring more financial security to the university.",3,3,22.224670714324823,GradSchool
How do you use Zotero to organize a dissertation?,"I've always used JabRef, because it produces a nice bibtex file for working with Latex. My understanding, though, is that zotero can do something similar, plus it's better for organizing sources. How is it better for organizing?",6,3,22.302517936547044,GradSchool
Is it worth it to do a joint BS/CS before doing a PhD?,"At my school, it is possible to do a masters degree in one additional year. The program consists of taking graduate classes senior year and then sticking around for one more year to write a thesis/take more classes. If my aim is to do a PhD at a different school, is this worth it? I know a PhD (theoretically) takes less time if you go in with a masters because it gets you out of much of the coursework requirement, but do you think the chances are high that I will end up having to repeat some of the courses anyway?

&#x200B;

Also, what are your thoughts on these kinds of programs in general?",3,1,22.168027195806307,GradSchool
Anyone else having a hard time working in coffee shops??,"I know it's very classically a good place to go to work with groups on projects when you wanna get out of the school building, but I find myself getting either really distracted or just draining my wallet. We have a local coffee shop next to campus but I always find it distracting hearing all the brewing machines going and constantly smelling that caffeine. I know it sounds CRAZY but sometimes literally just the aroma of coffee can make me jittery or anxious. Has that ever happened to anyone else?",5,1,22.207205436547046,GradSchool
How to afford publishing fees?,"I have been lucky to get grants for publishing, but what do you do if you are not lucky? Some faculty have grants that they will let you in on, but that is often not the case (at least not in geography). We are expected to publish, even as grad students, but each one is thousands of dollars. Do other fields have a way to handle this, or is it a much more common problem?",5,1,22.239647566176675,GradSchool
Disserta-done,"The final version of my dissertation is off to my committee tomorrow - hallelujah! I thought it was never going to end.

I thought I’d feel more relieved or something going towards the end, but all I really want is for it to be off my desk and focus on the actual defense.

Anyone else experience this lack of relief? I’m proud of my work and my dissertation, but I just kinda never want to look at it again after I submit it.",5,26,23.007425343954452,GradSchool
"Graduated last year with BCS, confused about which direction/area to pursue in masters",,0,0,22.31141839951001,GradSchool
How much money do students in The US/Europe spend on textbooks and other related expenses?,"Hello everyone!

I am an undergrad here in India. The cost of living is incredibly low here compared to the US or even the Europe. I pretty freely buy text books and reference books that I need. I do not have even one book that costs me more than 10$. Not even one. But that would obviously not be the case in the US. Moreover, here, if there is a book that is not available locally, or is not on Amazon India, I can go to library and get the book for myself. If not, I can always use a pirated pdf.

Now, I have seen memes and some serious posts too about how books are extremely expensive and that it becomes compulsory to buy those books. Is this true?

1. How much do you generally spend on such stuff in a semester?
2. Is it compulsory? Why can't I borrow one? Or use a pirated one? Why do you **have** to buy the books?
3. What else can I do to minimize the cost?

Thank you very much. If it matters, I will be a Physics Major.",9,3,22.65295775136186,GradSchool
Anyone else struggling to learn R?,"I am in a water resources program and I find the majority of work very fascinating. But my thesis work is looking at a year’s worth of two minute intervals of rainfall and chemistry data. I have no interest in using R after I graduate and I’m really stuck motivating myself to figure out how to code to do analysis of the data. Learning a programming language isn’t something I thought I would be doing but it is delaying my progress enough that my advisor is coming down hard on me now. My lab group is also not cooperative at all, fostered by my advisor’s “I don’t understand why you can’t just figure it out on your own” attitude and no SOPs despite everyone using similar monitoring methods. Any advice on how to “just do it?”",18,17,23.15792302913964,GradSchool
Masters options that are management centered but have a technical side as well,"Hey guys! I've done my bachelor's in economics, and am now looking to apply in Germany for my Masters. 

I want to do something that has business management as well as some technical skill. For example, Data Analytics and Business Management. I have no idea if any such degree exists. Or Business Analytics and Management. 

Could anyone list any Masters degrees like these that are being offered in Germany/Norway/Denmark/Sweden?

Thank you!",0,0,22.530839695806304,GradSchool
Completely stressed/burnt out and seeking advice,"2nd year MS student and last year I did really well by pushing myself hard and believing in myself and all that, but then I started to get SO burnt out. I realized this summer that the kind of work I want to do and think I could sustain isn't stuff you need and MS for, and is pretty unrelated to my research, but it also wouldn't hurt to have the degree and I figured I'd come so far I'd keep going. And now I'm under so much stress it's physically painful.

I flip between burnt out and stressed out frequently. In burnt out mode I completely don't care and feel like just avoiding everyone and failing out and being told to leave, which is like, why even bother being here then, so I start to try again, and I get stressed out. In stressed out mode my nerves go crazy and I can hardly sleep or relax and I start to feel SOOO anxious and depressed and miserable... that I get burnt out again. I'm already down to the minimum number of classes and working out every day and seeing a therapist and reading self help and doing everything I can to take care of my mental health... but it's not enough. I feel like I'm just not cut out for this and want to quit. But most people in my life (except my amazing, unconditionally supportive husband) keep telling me I'm almost there and to keep trying and it will get better. When is it the right choice to give up on grad school? How do you explain it to the people who don't get it? Especially to an advisor?

I finally was open with my advisor about how much pressure I've been feeling and being tempted to quit and she's suddenly been SOO much more kind and helpful and is wanting me to keep going on this project. But it still feels like too little too late cause of the crippling pressure I still feel (maybe I should have been more open sooner oops). My ideal would be to completely switch tracks to a different and totally unrelated project that's just vaguely in the same field because I'm so unmotivated by my current research. I thought I cared about it at first, partly cause it's prestigious and has funding, but at the end of the day I just don't. Even when I care I only care about the commitment I've made and the vague idea of of it not personally being involved in the research. But that's just not enough to get me through this rough patch without failing. Does anyone have advice or can relate to this?

tldr; I don't feel motivated at all by my research anymore and alternate between being burnt out and wildly stressed out to a breaking point. I'm over halfway done with my degree though and am deciding what the next step is right now- seeking compassion and advice",4,4,22.9065109921026,GradSchool
Is anybody else dealing with constant memory loss? I forget anything that isn’t my class material including my address and schedule,"screams loudly into pillow because I constantly look really stupid in front of my classmates

edit: okay it is really comforting to know I am not alone. Yeah it must be stress, which is annoying because not remembering things is causing stress",50,242,23.878605899510006,GradSchool
I feel like such an idiot,"I just recently started my first year in a PhD in chemistry and made the mistake of choosing quantum as it was one of the classes a potential advisor required (big mistake, ended up not liking his group and am joining a different one). I thought I'd be relatively fine but I was dead wrong. The professor initially stated that ""it would be taught as if we've never taken quantum before"" but almost 4 weeks in and I have absolutely no clue what's going on. The homework assignments cover things he off-handedly mentions or applications of things taught which I have no idea how to apply. It seems it requires some form of abstract thinking I am just not grasping. When I ask others in the class they seem to sorta understand it and I just don't know what to do. I feel like I've made a massive mistake by taking this class. I feel so fucking stupid and am questioning if I even belong here. Im on the verge of tears thinking about not getting a good grade in this class. Im also partially funded by a fellowship which requires a 3.0 and Im 100% sure Ill lose it after my first semester. There are a few other classes Im taking but most don't assign letter grades and the other class which I absolutely love and am doing good in would definitely *not* offset the inevitable drop in my gpa.

Has anyone else gone through this before? I would appreciate any advice.",8,4,22.984531825435933,GradSchool
Where do you work on Sundays?,"So I recently moved back to my hometown (about a 45-minute train ride from Penn Station in NYC) and I'm looking for a quiet place to work outside of my home. Monday-Saturday I usually go into the city or walk a little over a mile to the public library in town. But on ***Sundays*** the trains into the cities are painfully slow, the library is closed, and the very few coworking spaces available are only open on weekdays.

I guess I could go to a local coffee shop? but they tend to be loud and the tables are small and make it hard to keep all of my research out and within reach.

Please tell me I'm forgetting some facet of American life that can accommodate a grad student on Sunday.",9,5,23.12989062173223,GradSchool
Masters options for someone with an BS in EXSC,"Hi I'm new to community and would appreciate some advice. I graduated with my BS in Exercise Science and am in the process of applying to Dental school and PA school. PA school is my back up, however I graduated with a 3.3 GPA so I'm not confident that I'll get even get into PA school as my backup. 

  
So my last resort is some kind of master's program, but I'm not too familiar with masters programs. I know for a fact that I wouldn't want a masters in EXSC. I've considered an MHA and will most likely find programs to apply to but I want to know if there are similar options to MHA. I want to stay in healthcare for the most part. 

&#x200B;

Any advice would help, thanks.",3,2,22.946788769880378,GradSchool
How did you choose your focus for your Msc in history when applying? How focused was it?,"I'm intending to apply to UK schools for an Msc in Medieval History (mainly British) and after reading forums about applications/focus/statements I am starting to think I don't know enough about what I want to study to apply? I know I am interested in relations between the state and the church. I am very interested in churches/monasteries and castles from this period and area, their construction and how the churches and monasteries basically housed all of the documents. I also find the rule of religion really interesting and literacy (palaeography workshops at school were fun). I find the wars interesting, just everything. But reading people's focuses they applied with I'm like okay mine is too general. I haven't read all the manuscripts from this era, I'm much more versed in early modern Britain because that's what the profs at my uni specialise in. It's interesting, but not my favourite. I don't know a specific saint I want to focus on from specific town during a specific time. I am just concerned I'm not actually prepared enough.",1,2,22.95514525136186,GradSchool
Can a Psychology Major get a Masters in HR?,"I’m a senior in college currently aiming to graduate in Spring 2020. I am majoring in Psychology, but am now realizing that HR is probably a better career path for me. I was interested in I-O Psych but am not much of a statistics person (and I heard data and statistics are very important if you’re going into I-O Psych). I just completed an HR internship this summer, so I have a little experience (even if I mostly just did easy tasks like copying and filing papers and phone screenings). My boss at my HR internship said I was the most efficient intern they had ever had, but honestly it wasn’t hard work so their old interns must have been pretty slow.

Is it unrealistic for me to want to get a Masters Degree in HR at this point? I’m worried that I will be less likely to get into a masters program, or get hired than those with a degree in HR. I have a pretty good GPA and a great work ethic, but I‘m hesitant to jump into a masters degree just to get rejection after rejection.",12,0,22.815365158769268,GradSchool
How do I pay for PT school?,"I’m trying to figure out how on earth I’m going to afford tuition for a doctorate of physical therapy program. I currently receive Pell grant and have less than $10,000 in savings. Current have about $7,500 in loans. 

How on earth do I pay for this??",2,1,22.83425404765816,GradSchool
FLAS Funding,"Could FLAS funding effectively cover the tuition and fees of a year of grad school? The tuition for the program I am interested in is 13,000$ and FLAS funding is up to 18,000$. I understand that I would have to be enrolled in a language and area studies course each semester for a specific to receive the funding, but does this mean that the rest of my tuition would be covered by the award as well?",0,0,22.84666145506556,GradSchool
Sustainability/Responsible Tourism Programs in Europe?,"I'm a dual citizen (US/Portugal) and am looking to further my studies. I currently work in the tourism industry, and am interested in the idea of both sustainable business from an environmental & moral responsibility perspective, as well as building sustainable/responsible businesses in general. 

As a dual citizen, I'm hoping to discover some programs in Europe that hit on this subject. I'm looking for programs in Europe partially for financial reasons, and partially just for the experience. I have solid language proficiency in both Portuguese & Spanish, which may help my search, but I don't want to limit myself to those countries necessarily. 

I'm hoping /r/GradSchool has some suggestions for Universities & Programs to look into, as well as any personal experiences that may help color my decision. 

Thanks in advance, y'all.",0,1,22.929335066176677,GradSchool
Who is stealing your time? People who should be discarded,"1. *Constantly late.* Force majeure happens, and everyone can be delayed due to circumstances beyond his control. But there are people who just do not know how to arrive on time. And the most unbearable thing is that they really do not see anything special in it. Just think, only half an hour had to wait.

2. *Manipulators.* Such people you can meet from school. They ask to decide an example for them, because ""it’s hard for you, or something."" They play on our sense of self-importance, because they ""will not succeed, not like yours."" Suffer and complain. It’s not always possible to immediately bite through the manipulator, and you really want to help. And then it turns out that you were just doing someone else's work.

3. *Whiners.* We’ll immediately decide: you can’t take any complaints, the desire to share and other expressions of emotions as nagging. Each person has the right to experience their feelings, this is the key to psychological health. But there are people who clearly abuse this right. Their problems are always more important than yours. They can complain about life without stopping. And you don’t really understand what is needed from you. Attempts to help solve the problem rest on the endless ""yes, but ..."".

By the way, join new interesting subreddit where you can find help with your homework: r/BestEssayWritingHelp",5,0,22.33406886247297,GradSchool
Quick Survey on PhD Program Provision of Work Computers,,0,2,23.127980899510007,GradSchool
Interested in PhD in Literature or Philosophy or Theology,"I am interested doing a PhD in a *qualitative* subject *employing ""soft skills""* (like Literature, Philosophy or Law or Film or theology or history).

I am primarily interested in :

1. a grad school which will permit me to have a Teaching Assistant-ship so I may have a stipend and waived tuition charges
2. a program that will let me study Plato, Aristotle and the substantive Greek philosophers/ historians (Xenophon, Herodotus etc.) and permit me to write my thesis on them.

I am looking for universities which may help in this regard anywhere in the US or abroad. It is important that the university have decent people in them and not folk who are insincere or impolite or do not have my best interest at heart.

EDIT in italics",7,0,22.736534140250747,GradSchool
Masters in 3D Computer Animation vs Masters in Virtual Reality,"Hello, just wanted to ask the opinion of others who may have knowledge of the current job market better than I do.

The university I'm strongly considering offers an MA in 3D Computer Animation, Character Animation, and Virtual Reality.  I want to get my Master's to be considered as an animator at some of the top-dog studios, or even get into video game and news networks. Virtual reality was never really in my plans.... but, here's the thing: how can I *not* consider it. I'm qualified to apply for it. It just makes me wonder, is the virtual reality market going to explode, or is it something that will seem cool for 3 years and then fade out, like the Wii? Would getting my Master's in Virtual Reality be the best decision I ever made, or a waste of time diverging off my life plans?

Essentially, what are your thoughts on the profitability of Virtual Reality?",2,2,23.278779510621117,GradSchool
"Former math/stats major, now starting social sciences Phd. Nervous about petitioning out of required stats courses.","So since I already took a course in stats inference and regression (as well as lots of probability) in undergrad a few years ago, I petitioned out of having to take two required social science statistics courses offered by my department. It's generally recommended to petition out if you have the relevant experience. It's cool because it frees up two classes, where I can take other quantitative electives or even stats classes in my or other departments instead (e.g. econometrics).

I've already petitioned out, but I'm starting to have cold feet. I don't actually remember the content of the math/statistics courses I took. What if I take a third course in the sequence of stats classes and choke without having taken the first ttwo that I tested out of? What if I can't learn Stata well enough in a pinch (my previous coursework is in R)?

&#x200B;

Have any of you ever dealt with this/do you have any advice?",3,0,23.127436918028526,GradSchool
Applying to PhD programs in related fields,"Hey folks, I'm applying to PhD programs this year and am considering programs in two different departments at the same univesity. My undergrad is in geography, and my masters is in urban planning. Personally, it does not matter to me if I'm an urban planner with a geography background or a geographer with planning experience.  Does anyone have experience applying to two different programs at the same university, and how prospective advisors viewed it? Should I let prospective advisors know to what programs I'm applying?",1,1,23.14803876988038,GradSchool
Which is Better for MPA?,"Second tier programs that offer full funding, or first rate schools (like...Yale) that offer little to no funding? 

Top tier schools come with name recognition, which for something like an MPA is fairly valuable - correct me if I’m wrong here. The obvious downside to those schools is they’re much more selective in who they award fellowships, TA positions, etc., which means loans would be necessary. 

By second tier schools, I don’t mean places you’ve never heard of, more that their MPA programs aren’t ranked in the top 25. 

Advice from current/former MPA grads from all backgrounds and schools would be greatly appreciated. This is all catching up to me, and I’ve got to make a decision soon. 

Thanks in advance, y’all.",3,1,23.254798029139636,GradSchool
Desperate for advice,"How do I even start this post... I guess with the fact that I am absolutely desperate for advice. I am a Master’s student in the field of ecology currently trying to finish up my thesis on edge effects. However, I am nearing the deadline for when my whole paper is due (11/1) and I do not have a proper discussion written. I also keep making stupid editing mistakes and I can tell my advisor is fed up with me. If I do not draft a great discussion, my advisor will not let me defend this semester. I need to get out. So, I am practically begging, **what makes a good discussion? What are your writing tips? How can I make this discussion section of my paper perfect on the first draft? **

I have a draft written, but I feel like I am rambling and speculating about my results and that it all means nothing. 

TL;DR: Please help me, what makes a good discussion section?",27,26,24.054196177287785,GradSchool
Prospects: I/O Psych vs Public Policy,"hey guys

i once had big dreams of being a German professor (I have a BA in German Lang & Lit.) then i decided TESOL was a better, wider spread career opportunity.

now that I'm teaching English in Spain... i just want a stable job lol. i thought i would like the hustle of yearly contacts, private lessons on the side, under the table money, etc. etc. things with my GF (telecommunications engineer) are getting serious and we are talking long term plans (where to live, family, etc.)

there are two good programs i could get into, one Governance and Public Policy, and one I/O Psych. 

i know they are pretty wildly different, but looking into what each semester entails, i think i would enjoy either pretty substantially.

as an aside, i am a US citizen who can speak German and Spanish (fluent), and my GF is an EU citizen. i am open to a grad program in Germany or Spain / the US.

any thoughts on these as terminal degrees? i really have no interest in a PhD or another master's afterwards. am still considering staying with TESOL if there is something I am missing in terms of career longevity, but I don't want to live in China or struggle to get jobs every year",3,1,23.336916084695194,GradSchool
A bunch of questions about writing and submission (masters thesis),"This has been a big change from standard coursework that I dont know what I am expected to do. I have just started writing my thesis, i did my lit review throughout the year to ease the pressure but it is piling on (40 days from draft submission).

A bit about my research. It is in Machine Learning specifically autonomous vehicles. one of my research questions has been explored but not publicly (only by large companies, not released) where as the others have not (AFAIK). 

I guess my questions are:

What can I understand from a markers perspective, what do they want?

Am i suppose to show a practical implementation of my outcome?

How do i get past 'mental writing roadblocks'?


My supervisor is very good as answering any queries i have in regard to my actual work and field, but gives very abstract answers to general thesis questions. So i dont know what to make of them. 

thank you",4,4,23.63028414025075,GradSchool
How do you manage having to read a lot of papers at once?,"I’m working on a research proposal and I’ve got a bunch of papers to read. Do you all speed read? Only the intro, discussions, and conclusion?",8,15,23.98829339951001,GradSchool
Citation and Common Knowledge Advice,"Hello World!

I am working on a cumulative/ e-portfolio project and I am wanting to include some “research” or “detailed notes” excerpts from my archive into a section displaying some of my previous projects. 

The majority of what I want to display doesn’t include traditional references but are from a professional online “course/training” from work as an intern.  

Though they are notes, they are delivered in a way that is highly detailed and formatted including diagrams and drawings that differ slightly from the original source, but the information is the same. 

TLDR: 

What I am stumped on is that in the field this would be common knowledge and I don’t want to professionally put out work that isn’t “mine”. However, the information obtained from the source is very concise, and I don’t want to muddle the work to claim it as my own. 


Question: How do I go about this?",1,1,23.457483214324824,GradSchool
grad school for Spanish (US vs. international),"Hi, I'm a good ways out from even applying to graduate programs as I've still got another year of Peace Corps service left, but I'm trying to narrow down where to begin looking into programs. Did my BA in Romance Languages (specializing in Hispanic literatures and cultures) and Linguistics, and would love to find a way to combine those fields, but I'm also really interested in potentially doing my master's abroad...which leads to my question of ""where on earth should I look?"" So I guess I really have a few questions...

a) for a master's degree in something to do with Spanish, does it really matter if I pursue that in the US or should I be fine looking in Spanish speaking countries (or even somewhere random in Europe?)

b) does anyone have any recommendations or experience combining literature studies and linguistics

c) how important is it that I know straightaway what specifically I want to do this for (I honestly just enjoy studying, don't know yet if I want to pursue a PhD and academia or get out after a master's and then what on earth to do with it once I've done it)

Sorry if I come across as a bit clueless, I've tried just jumping into google and all that did was give me too much information that I have no idea what to do with. Thanks in advance for any words of advice!",0,1,23.458316547658153,GradSchool
"I submitted a fellowship proposal today that I have no chance of winning, and I feel great!",I finished my application for a fellowship today that is super competitive and I have no chance of winning. But writing up my research statement was an amazing exercise in seeing how far I've come in my program and reminding myself of my long term goals. I'm pumped up and feel like I want to write my next three papers all at once now!,12,281,24.901244788398895,GradSchool
Going to Grad School while in the Reserves.,"Hello, I am currently working on a bachelors degree in cyber security/policy.

I was considering getting a masters degree, and I was also considering joining the Naval Reserves (USA), so I could have more income.  My only concern, is the effects this could have on my grades.

I know Grad School can be rough, and requires a lot of time.  In the reserves I would have to dedicate and entire weekend every month to the Navy.

Has anyone here been in a similar position?  Is it doable?  Thanks!",4,2,23.78491376988038,GradSchool
Finally ready to go back!,"Woah boy, it has been a rough couple years.

While falling into a state of deep depression, I started did a M.Sc under the supervision of a good PI and successfully finished a little more than a year ago.  Unfortunately, my life fell apart as I started drinking a lot to cope with what I learned was crippling OCD and anxiety, and this was even before I moved on to do a PhD with a new supervisor who was an absolute dictator (to his credit, I am much more rigorous and disciplined because of him though).  

Well, I attempted suicide in February and left my PhD about a month and half later.  It was a rough old slog and I almost didn't make it through, but therapy and pro-active measures have helped me reclaim my lust for life and learning about the world.  I reached out to my old M.Sc supervisor and he told me he would like to have me come and do a PhD with him.  I can't wait!

I will be meeting with him in the coming week to go over the project, and I'll probably start in the winter! Heck yah!

Also, if you are struggling with mental health, don't do what I did and wait until you are thinking about suicide constantly.  A supervisor who is a dictator is not worth it.",5,33,24.49383738099149,GradSchool
Stressed,"I just started my graduate program this semester. I am an RN and pursuing my masters in informatics. This will help me to pursue a career in nursing informatics. I am stressing that I have taken on too much and that I can’t do this. I work full time and have a 10 month old daughter. I am no stranger to hardwork. Nursing is my second career and I took classes at night for nursing while working full time. I am very dedicated and motivated. However these computer science classes are almost like another language to me. I’m surviving (I have As so far - but just assignments and quizzes no exams). I’m only a month in and feel very overwhelmed. I don’t know if i should drop a course (I’m taking 2), or stick it out and hope i make passing grades in both. I can’t decide 😩. I really want to complete both courses but also don’t want to end my chances with the program if I don’t get a passing grade in one or both courses. Any advice?",8,2,23.889184603213714,GradSchool
Does turning down a grad school acceptance offer hurt my chances of reapplying in a year or two?,"Timing right now is my worst enemy. I have been planning to apply to graduate school (I live in the US) for an Masters in Public Health, Epidemiology to start next fall (2020). My top choice school’s application is the first one due, which is in January. I know I need to be getting my letters of recommendation together and submitting my application.

However, recently, there have been conversations at my current job about a team of new positions opening up. It would involved a department move and a promotion, and is actually related to public health, so it would be great work experience for me. No one is sure when these new positions will officially be created, but I am extremely interested in applying for them. My guess would be within the next year.

So, grad school applications are due before I would probably hear about these new jobs, but the jobs will probably start before next fall. My question then is: would it hurt me to apply to grad school now, and if accepted to both a program and the new job, turn down the grad acceptance offer in order to continue working for a few years, then reapply to go back to school when I’m ready? Would schools be less willing to accept me after turning them down once?",6,14,24.41141839951001,GradSchool
Need advice,"Hello fellow grad students, I hope you’re doing what you thought you would be doing in grad school. 

I’m going a RA for the protect I’m interested in. However, some assignments from my supervisor take ton of time from me because of not having appropriate skills. For example, he asked me to sort very raw and messy data in excel that I’m not  capable of. I spent 6 hours yesterday working on it and I could barely sort a half of it. He’a a very understanding professor and always encourages me to ask for help, but it’s difficult because he’s traveling a lot and via email I can’t get how to work in excel, I need to see it. 

Do you think it would be rude if I told him that I have a really hard time using excel for his assignments and I would appreciate if he could invest in me studying the program? We have a huge database we need to work on and I’m not sure how to work on it without appropriate skills .

Thank you for reading this. I appreciate your opinion.",3,2,24.248142936547048,GradSchool
16-year old applying to a biostats PhD program,"Hi everybody,

First off, I'd like to explain my non-traditional situation. I'm currently attending a lower-end university through a program that allows teenagers to essentially skip high school and move straight towards obtaining their Bachelor's degree. I entered this program at age 13, and moving into my senior year, I'll be expecting my degrees at age 16. I currently have a double major in Biochemistry and Mathematics, with both BS degrees expected in December 2019.

Lately, I've been considering attending graduate school in biostatistics for a PhD. For my math degree, I've taken linear algebra, Calc I-IV, real analysis, ordinary differential equations, numerical analysis, and an extremely basic statistics course. My composite GPA is a 3.97, and I've taken the GRE: 168V/170Q/5.5 essay. I have held a couple of student leadership positions in government and in various clubs on campus. For my application, I do know I'll have one stellar recommendation from my math professor, and two other passable ones from faculty in biology and biochem.

For my research, I have two senior theses written at school, but neither of them have too much to do with statistics. Additionally, I don't have any background whatsoever in computer science, but I'm trying to implement some Python into my math thesis, which I'm currently working on, to show that I have some proficiency in a coding language. In addition to this, I worked for a summer at a research lab in China, but it was only for a period of about 2.5 months. 

I wanted to ask around for my chances at admission to a top-tier graduate school program. I know that with my age, many programs could be hesitant to admit me due to questions about my maturity, or whether or not I'll be ""ready."" I'm mainly concerned about my lack of higher-level statistical courses, and the fact that my current undergrad institution is extremely low-tier. With a quite unique case like mine, do you guys have any advice in particular I should follow moving forward? What are my chances at getting into a PhD program?  I greatly appreciate any insights you guys could give towards my situation.",21,0,23.81109432543593,GradSchool
I Proposed- and I didn’t die!,"I just wanted to thank everyone that read my last post and responded to help alleviate my anxiety. I proposed my dissertation yesterday afternoon and I didn’t fumble over my words or even get asked a question I couldn’t answer. These were two things I was really nervous about and so it felt really good to do a good job and actually recognize that I did a good job (sometimes this can be hard in grad school). 

So thank you kind Redditors!",11,126,25.282274880991487,GradSchool
Just had my first presentation in front of my thesis advisors and it went TERRIBLE. How do y'all manage your nerves?,"My ""presentation"" was just over a small chapter of an introductory textbook. I was just meant to show my advisors I understood the reading and show them what I learned. I have to do one every week.


I didn't even get through half of it before I broke down crying. Cried so much they both decided to end the presentation early. Cried more in the bathroom afterwards. My eyes hurt. They both make me extremely nervous and I suck at speaking in front of people, especially in front of experts on the subject. I'm scared they're going to realize I'm not as smart as they think I am and I'm terrified of making them regret taking me on as their student. 


This is my first semester as a grad student. I'm studying population dynamics. 


Please, I'd greatly appreciate any advice and/or anecdotes.",27,44,25.118131362472973,GradSchool
What is the difference between course and thesis based MEng?,"I was going through the graduate programs of University of Calgary,Canada and I found my interest - which is Chemical Engineering.

However they have thesis based and course based MEng.

What is the difference? How will it affect me in the future? If i choose thesis based MEng,will I be in the disadvantage for industrial jobs?

Thank you :)",7,0,24.26395312173223,GradSchool
Recs for schools strong in post-1945 British history,"Title says it all. Applying for graduate programs (MA or PhD) and my list of schools is fairly short. I need to broaden my list for a better chance. So far I have NYU, Columbia, U of Washington, Boston College.",5,0,24.116835066176677,GradSchool
It feeks like every other grad student is a multilingual globe-trotting polymath,"...and here I am, just a farm boy who grew up liking bugs more than tractors. 

How are all y'all pulled straight out of summer blockbuster scripts? It's amazing.

Edit:  you don't know how much these comments mean. And NOT ONE person left a snarky comment about my fat-fingered title mishap. Y'all are wonderful.",64,423,25.81789988099149,GradSchool
"Entering PhD next week, scared shitless","Title. Straight from undergrad. Very excited, but very nervous. Any tips for adjusting quickly?",11,16,25.07847858469519,GradSchool
Reading paper for the 2nd time,"I hope I am not the only one. Sometimes when I go back to the paper I read, I uncovered more detail and things that really impact the way I do my experiments. This has always left a feeling of guilt that I failed to pay attention to details that I should have.....",11,22,25.252263306917413,GradSchool
Should I do a postdoc if I want to go into industry?,"I'm currently applying to PhD programs. I had always assumed that a post-doc is basically required if you want a higher paying position, academia or in industry.

However I was reading various posts and I think my thinking is flawed.

So, if I want to work in industry and have no desire to work in academia, is a post-doc worthwhile/necessary in order for me to get higher paid positions in the future?'

Edit: Looking at molecular biology/genetics programs.

Thanks all!",5,6,24.97133738099149,GradSchool
I need to find a part-time job and I’m stressed out!!!,"I moved back home this year after finishing undergrad since my grad school wasn’t super far away. But the commute sucked and I hated it, also it gets stressful being at home. I’m finally moving out but now I need to find a part-time job soon. The job hunt has been super stressful since RA, GRA, TA and SA positions go so fast. I want to do something grad school related now. How do I not get stressed out and dejected by rejection and keep pushing through, while I’m still a full-time student?",2,2,24.89202025136186,GradSchool
What kind of master’s programs should I look into if I want to do PsyD/DClinPsy in the future?,"I graduated with bachelors in biology and psychology. I want to do PsyD and I was wondering what kind of master’s should I do so that I can get a job in the field? My plan is to get a master’s, work in the field for a year, then enroll in PsyD. There are so many programs for master’s in psychology such as developmental psych, behavioural analysis, experimental psych, etc. and I am not sure which one to pick.",8,0,24.827575806917416,GradSchool
Letters of Recommendation,"I currently have two letters of recommendation from professors and one from my ROTC commander. I met with another professor today and he recommended adding another professor in place of my ROTC commander (for programs that only allow 3 letters). Thoughts?

I feel like my ROTC commander can talk about my non academic performance/leadership abilities.",4,2,25.019890621732234,GradSchool
Anxiety about whether I belong here (Master's),"Start of 2nd year (U.S.). Black and female with no work experience = unicorn/outcast. 

I feel dumber than everyone else admitted with me. There's a clique of Indian/African students who just seem to ""get it"". Like they're never confused about coursework, always get A's on exams, never fuck up even once. 

And they look down on me. They avoid me in classes, they don't sit with me or talk to me more than an occasional ""hello"" despite my best efforts to be friendly. I think they know I'm not worth their time because I'm not as good at the material as they are. 

While I have a 4.0, I've had to struggle for it. And it's not like I haven't screwed up exams- our professors just graded on a curve. I don't even know if I can keep my GPA this time around. I don't inherently get the material, but I try to meet with my professors and ask questions. (Plus I now have to balance schoolwork with a part-time internship and developing my thesis.)

I had to drop a course last semester, and it seemed like everyone knew about it by the end of the day. I felt so embarrassed, but my quiz scores were so much lower than everyone else's every single week, and I was going mental. I broke down and cried in the middle of class once, but I was sitting alone, so it's not like anyone noticed. (Have to retake it next Spring. Fuck me.)

I guess the bottom line is, I feel so alone and sometimes I wonder what I'm even doing here. I don't know if I deserve any of this, and maybe I should give up my position to a student who really deserves it. I don't even know if I was just accepted as a ""diversity hire"" or something. 

TL;DR: Being alone in grad school makes me feel like an idiot. I feel like I can't do this, and it makes me want to scream.",17,10,25.409242473584083,GradSchool
Has anyone failed and gotten into another program?,"I am just curious.  I've been looking it up on online forums and some people say that if you fail, you can restart and others are very adamant about it not being possible.",6,3,25.14545775136186,GradSchool
Master’s in Health Administration/Management?,"Hey guys! I'm about to graduate with my Bachelor's in General Studies (with a concentration in Natural and Applied Sciences). I want to further my education into something more specific and was looking at a Master's in Health Administration (or alternatively, Healthcare Administration, Health Management, Healthcare Management, etc). Radiology technician and Nursing didn't work out for me, but I still want to work in healthcare. I like the idea of working ""behind the scenes"" in a hospital. If any of y'all have a master's degree in something similar, how did it pay off for you? What kind of jobs do you have and what's the pay like? Thanks in advance!",0,2,25.0768234921026,GradSchool
Undergraduate student looking for advice on CS/engineering masters programs,"Hi all! I'm currently a student at the University of Texas at Austin studying mathematics with a certificates in computer science and statistics, but I really want to attend graduate school for a computer science or mechanical/industrial engineering masters and hopefully enter the data science/software industry after graduation.

The problems I've been having so far are that I do not have any internship experience, and I will be graduating in either December 2020 or May 2021. I hope to get some research experience through the math department and learn some more programming in the my free time so that I can work on some projects. I also feel like I have a mediocre GPA (3.35) and tried to transfer into the engineering/CS departments at UT but got rejected, so I'm now trying to go to graduate school for these fields. I'm hoping to raise this GPA to a 3.5+ in my remaining semesters here, but I think it will be quite hard since I have only math/computing/statistics classes to take (currently taking two math/two stats classes right now) and those classes take up a lot of time.

So, the advice I'm looking for is should I focus more on classes and get letters of rec for masters programs or projects/research? I'm trying my best to focus on more applied math/stats classes, but my lack of experience is hurting me. Also, am I out of luck for getting into some good/decent graduate programs with some funding? What is realistic for me? Any advice would be appreciated!",0,0,24.92478645506556,GradSchool
Possibility of leaving Graduate Assistantship for a better one?,"So I've just started my first year as an MA student and my assistantship is in another department (I'm a history MA and my assistantship is with a department that teaches reading skills to first-year undergrads who aren't yet reading at a college level). When I tell other history people what my assistantship is, it's always met with ""Well you should be able to get a better one next semester."" The problem is, my contract is two semesters- through April.

I was just told by my program director that one's coming open next semester in Oral History (my field!), but my contract won't be up by then. Am I out of luck here, or is it typically possible to leave one department for another and break the first contract? I've been told that can happen if it's moving people around in the same department, but I'm unsure when it comes to moving from one department to another.

Also, I recognize that bailing may leave my current employer in a tough spot, but my director said she'll start talking to people about it next week so it would give them plenty of notice. I just want a position that will actually give me experience in my field.",2,1,24.950330436547045,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Celebrate your birthday?

* Complete an experiment successfully?

* Finish final exams for a summer course?

* Take your first vacation in years?

* Submit a paper?

* Learn how to write a good CV from a stellar mentor?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",34,4,25.295214695806308,GradSchool
Little research experience but want a PhD,"Hi all. I don’t have very much research experience but am interested in eventually pursuing a PhD after completing my BS in mechanical engineering. Would first going for an MS make me more competitive for PhD programs, or does an MS not necessarily help with PhD admissions?",4,1,24.986221640250747,GradSchool
Is getting a PsyD/DClinPsy worth it?,I am considering doing PsyD since I want to practice as a therapist and also teach if possible. I was wondering if doing a PsyD is worth it? I’m looking at schools in uk and Australia. I also want the mobility to be able to practice and teach in America with a British or Australian PsyD degree.,10,0,24.83031886247297,GradSchool
Review of statement of purpose?,"I'm looking for someone to give feedback on my statement of purpose (or let me know other free resources.) Not a lot of folks around me have gone to grad school so I don't have people in my life to ask! 

I'm five years out of undergrad (journalism) moving to apply to MPH programs for Fall 2020. If anyone has any capacity to give a look at my statement (1400 words,) let me know and I could send over or post a link. 

thanks to anyone who has any capacity. love the reddit communties!",3,0,25.011175343954452,GradSchool
Being railroaded by a territorial peer-reviewer *Update*,"This is an update from the post I made a couple days ago liked here:  


[https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d5h753/being\_railroaded\_by\_a\_territorial\_peerreviewer/](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d5h753/being_railroaded_by_a_territorial_peerreviewer/)  


I got some good news today about this. The journal needs two reviewer recommendations to proceed with publication, so I still have some waiting to do, but the editor decided to find another reviewer! Here's hoping this next one won't be a jackass. Thanks everyone for the support and advice, I really appreciate this community.",11,125,26.13037673284334,GradSchool
Not sure I can do this," 

So I'm in my first semester as a physics PhD student but I'm not sure I'm cut out for this. I did great in undergrad (as I'm sure everyone here did). It was hard but I could keep up with it

I have pretty bad depression which has always been a hindrance, but I managed it.

Now, however, I'm barely on my third week of classes and the material is so far above undergrad (it started off decently past my undergrad level), the lectures are way over my head, and I spend every waking minute doing homework that I don't understand. I struggle to understand the problems, and can't no matter how hard I try without getting help from the other students or looking at online solutions. I barely manage to finish the work before it's due and I get the next assignment that takes up every minute of my life.

I have quite literally cried more often than I can count and can barely find the will to keep going. I knew it would be hard, but I thought I would at least feel like I'm learning and growing while it honestly seems like I'm just being crushed. I was wondering if you guys had any advice or if I'm even suited for grad school. I just feel so so far below where I should be.",4,6,25.438200806917415,GradSchool
Quantum computing research?,"I have a bachelor's in mathematics, but I want to conduct research in quantum computing. Potentially grad school. What would be the best way to make the switch?",9,1,25.16926562173223,GradSchool
To leave or not to leave?,"I'm a 3rd year PhD in Linguistics and dying inside. I don't know how much longer I'm going to make it in this program, nor what to do were I to leave.

I'm taking 3 classes and teaching 2 sections of a freshman writing course, which tends to keep me pretty busy, although overarching stress from fighting with my advisor pretty much nonstop for two years has pushed me into procrastinating and 24/7 anxiety. He does not support my research agenda and wants me to pursue something closer to what he does; I have agreed to do that for the dissertation with the caveat that I continue to pursue my own agenda as a side project, as that is where I want my career to go. He was okay with this the first year but has since backtracked on that support, trying to force me out of my area of interest altogether. Earlier this month I applied for a Fulbright award to pursue this research (against his wishes) and I am waiting to hear back on that. I was also jointly pursuing a MA in Anthropology, and I was informed today by the new graduate coordinator that the advice I'd received from the head of the department was wrong, and that it would take more time than anticipated to complete it, which immediately makes me want to just master out in Linguistics and drop Anthro altogether despite the fact that I love it and use anthropological methods heavily in my personal research.

I have stopped going to therapy because my therapist STRONGLY encourages me to stay in graduate school and hearing that from her always makes me cry and feel trapped (tearing up just remembering it). I want to leave. I want to be free from all this stress. I want to stop crying in my car every day (or in my office, as I'm doing now) wishing I were anywhere else. I see my research with my advisor (as he wants it to be) going nowhere I want to be, but I'm caught up in a web of ""what ifs"" and feel broken by the (well-intended) advice of my peers to just do the bare minimum and get out.

Please help me. I feel like a failure no matter what.",28,37,26.22565451062112,GradSchool
Have 6 weeks to write my masters thesis of 15000 words . Is it possible . I have done the research just have to write .,,10,7,25.915191547658157,GradSchool
Undergraduate in need of advice,"Hello everyone,

I am currently an dual enrollment high school junior/undergraduate freshman who wants to become a professor; the problem is that I have two disciplines I am very interested. But to start, a little bit about me. I started reading for enjoyment last year around this time after being inspired by John  Fish and have been reading nonfiction voraciously ever since. It is crazy, but I have read 222 books since last October, almost all nonfiction. I am absolutely at wonder with all the depth that exists out in the world, and would like to make my own contribution. 

The two subjects that interest me the most are epigenetics and early 1800s American intellectual history. I have been researching how to go to the best graduate school (for job placement) and have research lined up with a professor from each area. In epigenetics I am just now starting a project which researches the methylation of a gene and its effect in causing cells to become tumorigenic; in history I have an independent research “class” (for credit, but one-on-one with the professor) promised to me for this spring semester to research how new scientific ideas affected American intellectual thought in the early 1800s (these projects are usually only offered to juniors or seniors). The history professor said that I could start getting into the details with him next week.

So, here is the tough part: I have to choose which path to take. Genetics or American History? Opportunities abound each direction I look, but that makes my decision even more difficult. I have set myself up great for either way, but once I choose what path to take, it is full speed ahead. I’m looking for advice: where to go, what criteria to decide on, or any helpful words you have for an inspired student of learning.",1,0,25.368212380991487,GradSchool
Need help in picking a school!,"UK-

1. Warwick Business School 
2. University of Strathclyde 
3. University of Glasgow 

Ireland-

1. University College Dublin 
2. Trinity College Dublin

New Zealand- 

1. University  of Auckland 

Course: MSc. Marketing (or variations thereof) 

UK1 is my dream school with backups being UK2 and UK3 along with Ireland 1 and Ireland 2 and the backup of my backup being New Zealand 1.

 

I have already received an offer from university of Auckland and i need to accept it by 16th November 2019. only problem is that UK3 is the only school that i will be hearing back by then. other schools will take long....so what do i do? do i just play it safe and accept the offer from university of Auckland or try for the better ones?",11,0,25.53847858469519,GradSchool
Media/Publicity on CV,"Note: This is also posted on Ask academia. I’m sorry, I don’t know how to cross post. 

Hello,

Is it appropriate to include media stories about ones research? Especially, those that involve interviews?

I presented at a conference which got picked up by a government news letter, then the local paper. That in turn got picked up by a bigger source. Now, I'll be doing a live interview on national (not American) radio soon.

Is it appropriate to include any of the above on my CV. I don't think it adds anything to the scientific rigour of my work but maybe it will help with scholarship and grant applications? I'm currently, a 1st year PhD student. Transferred directly from an MSc in the same lab. My PI is very generously taking very little to no credit.

Thank you.",2,2,25.90310821432482,GradSchool
Study abroad,"Hello!  As someone studying Psychology and considering doing grad school in the near future, I was wondering if studying abroad for a semester or year during grad school is a possibility.  I am considering doing a study abroad but am unsure if I will be able to, given as it is my senior year and I am preparing to graduate.  Hence why I am considering if I can have such options in my grad school year.  I am not sure I want to do entire programs abroad, so I am wondering if just one year or one semester is a possibility.",2,1,25.74923089951001,GradSchool
Why grad school feels bad and a few things that have worked for me to counteract the academic madness,"This was something I posted as a comment in a different sub. Helping others through their stress, explaining the problems of grad school, and how to overcome them make me feel better about the constant grind. Hope it helps someone else too!

Grad school, at least for STEM fields, is particularly brutal due to the lack of a measuring stick. You might be Killin it. It might be Killin you. There's no way to tell bc once you're done with course work, the only thing to mark success is your project which is a fucking nightmare to use as a measuring stick. The alternative is constant comparisons to others which will completely undermine your own development.

Your project might be super difficult, cutting edge, but require a ton of work. Someone else's project might be cutting edge but already wrapping up. So despite working your ass off, you only get 1 publication whereas they *seem* to get 6. And while you're in the thick of it, those two numbers are all you can see. You might hate the constant comparison within your mind but you cant escape it when nothing seems to be working. So you wake up every morning, go to lab, fail most days, and constantly wonder why your project isn't working;

""I'm fucking up."" ""This is my fault."" ""If they were in charge it would be finished by now."" ""I probably need to relax and then I'd have a fresh mind to tackle this."" ""I should definitely work more, a real hard 24 hour push of lab work would get this project done."" ""'I'm just being a baby and need to get the work done."" ""Maybe I need a break like my SO tells me."" ""Fuck I'm lazy, I bet my boss hates me bc I'm never here""-your inner monologue as you hit hour 10 on a Friday

Meanwhile, you might actually be 90% done with your research. The rxn tomorrow might actually work and suddenly that wall is gone and everything pushes forward to the end. You won't know it's the end, it'll just suddenly be. If there was a status bar to actually mark progress, grad school wouldn't be so hard bc you could rest easy knowing you arnt undermining your own efforts and that your hard work is paying off.

Some advice on how to be proactive and prevent the academic madness. These things have worked for me but I didnt get these things fully going until my third year.

1. Start counselling when you begin grad school. It really helps to have someone outside of your life to just bitch at without wondering if you just depressed them.
2. Keep a small notebook. Write down every accomplishment when you achieve it. Hell, write down anything that makes you happy. Sounds corny but at one point you are gonna ask yourself ""what have I ever accomplished?""
3. A) Have a physical hobby of some sort. Run, lift, bike, do something physical with your body to keep your hormones level. B) Have a hobby completely separate from grad school. You probably can't get this until after your exams but it's a necessity after year 2. Do something with your friends that you all enjoy that isn't work or alcohol related. My group goes rock climbing 2-3 times a week.
4. Keep the end goal in mind. The end goal is to get a PhD. Publications would be nice, fellowships would be nice, and awards would be nice. Getting the D is the real goal though.

And keep in mind, every year comes with its own set of problems. There is not a single year that is most challenging, they all come with a hurdle. With each year you dive deeper into the shit, it gets murky there and easy to forget who, what, when, where, and why you are there. Do everything you can to keep focus on those W's.",40,257,27.004358214324824,GradSchool
Is it okay to start a PhD one or even two years after finishing undergrad? How will the application be considered the longer I wait? (Biology+Mechanical engg dual major),"I just graduated in July this year, and I'm pretty confused whether to apply for a PhD this year or the next. I thought I made up my mind for the former - I'm in the middle of my GRE prep and have spoken to my  references for LORs too- but realize that I'm still  unsure. 

I have an average 7.6 GPA (on 10) but I spent this last year of undergrad doing relevant research in a couple of labs at Harvard Medical School. I was supposed to return in Sept as a Research Associate in the same lab to continue my work but my visa appication is stuck in paperwork - I'll probably start in November. My original plan was to apply this year and start my PhD after having worked as an RA for a year.

Now I feel like I need help weighing the costs of starting my PhD after having waited for one vs two years. Will fresher candidates be preferred? 

Thanks for reading!",12,5,26.169196177287787,GradSchool
"GRE scores not great, but I really don't want to take it again.","Hi guys! I'm a senior art history student who is about to start applying to graduate programs. I took the GRE and didn't do well. At all. 148 verbal and 3.0 analytical (my programs don't care about the math). I have a lot on my resume though: a great gpa, study abroad, paper presentations at major national conferences, and an internship along with wonderful recommenders. Should I worry about the GRE and retake it, or just apply to my schools?",7,0,25.85743691802853,GradSchool
Update: So I made an ass of myself to my graduate advisor,"Update to [https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d5l7pn/so\_i\_made\_an\_ass\_of\_myself\_to\_my\_graduate\_advisor/](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d5l7pn/so_i_made_an_ass_of_myself_to_my_graduate_advisor/)

I hope this isn't violating rule 9

First of all thank you to those who commented with support, encouragement, and advice. It really helped

I talked to my advisor in person, and now I feel even more like an idiot, albeit in a more positive sense. Basically the conversation had the following points

* My code was actually working correctly, it turns out the program we were using to compare was actually performing incorrectly. This was confirmed by comparing to 2 other exact solutions that matched my own.
* He considers my core thesis work was done, with this current project being an extra that will be a bonus to the end product
* To let him know about this stuff, because it was his job to help his students succeed

So basically, I felt like quitting and/or driving into a tree over my own imaginary perceived failure. So my lesson for the day is to not be an overly paranoid moron.",7,77,26.9408859921026,GradSchool
About a month in now and I love it!,"Started my PhD last month and honestly it’s been awesome. My first rotation lab is doing really interesting research and I’m getting along with everyone really well. My small lit review has really helped me understand what’s going on and I’ve been fairly successful with the various techniques I’ve been learning. 

My cohort is also great! Everyone is really nice, we click pretty well, and it’s awesome to be surrounded by people who like science as much as I do! 

My program is also amazing. The faculty are all really supportive and there are a lot of collaborations between labs. The whole environment just feels really warm and welcoming. 

I know this sub is pretty negative a lot, but I’m really hoping that this first month is reflective of what the next 5-7 years is going to be like because right now I’m absolutely loving it.",13,65,26.944821177287785,GradSchool
"If I started making youtube videos about spirituality , how badly do you think it would effect my scientific career?","If I started making youtube videos about spirituality , how badly do you think it would effect my scientific career?",30,6,26.327622103213713,GradSchool
"Urban Design/Planning - Applying next year, How can I become more competitive/is this a good plan?","First and foremost, I do not have an architecture degree. My current experience includes a Business Degree/Sustainability Minor from 4 years ago, 4 years of experience in the solar industry (solar system design/operations), and a small internship for marketing at an urban planning organization just after University. My best bet seems to go for an Urban Planning program and concentrate in Urban Design.

I've joined a couple urban planning related organizations, got a LEED certification (I realize that LEED is just the beginning of a big conversation in planning but that's a different discussion), and am now taking a certificate course about city planning (Designing Cities from UPenn). I'm hoping that despite a 3.5 GPA from Undergraduate, not working in the industry directly, being 4 years out of school, and having what will likely be an average GRE score that I can still hone a competitive application.

The Plan:

The current plan is to wait 1 more year, see if I can push my GRE scores/resume in order to apply for some of the more competitive graduate planning programs.

I'm eyeing a few online certificate classes that are directly related to urban design including one from MIT Media Lab, and potentially a small certificate course of a few classes. Will having a smattering of online course certificates from IVY Leagues/ other universities in my resume look like I'm just packing on the pounds for IVYs that I apply to?

I intend on joining a few more design competitions in the next 6 months to improve my portfolio and work on a few architecture-related VR projects with a friend. While I would love to transition into the architecture/planning industry before applying, I realize my skillset is very solar focused so I'm trying to find other ways to look active outside of work.

Where I plan to apply:

The most competitive programs I've been eyeing include: Berkeley's MCP - Environmental Planning and Healthy Cities, UPenn's MCP with an Urban Design or Environmental Concentration, and Harvard's Master's of Design: Energy and Environment

I will apply for a few back-ups but I want to put my best foot forward for the more competitive programs.

Not sure if there's a place where I can read others' stories for those who got into prestigious urban design/planning programs or if my ""story"" sounds convincing enough. Feel free to let me know of creative ways to improve my chances, thank you in advance!",1,1,26.026881362472974,GradSchool
University of Pittsburgh grad students will get a new union election due to unfair labor practices by the university,,0,34,26.83332812173223,GradSchool
Graduate School Advice,"Hello everyone!

I am currently a senior at a University, & I have plans to go to graduate school in Fall of 2020. Nobody else in my family has attended graduate school, & I don't really know that many people that attended it either. I have a couple questions about graduate school & the process of it all

1) When do you start applying to grad school? I understand some or most schools require you to take the GRE, when would be the time to start studying & taking the GRE in order to attend graduate school by Fall 2020?

2) Is there a specific GPA requirement? I only have a 2.8 GPA right now :(. Will that low of a GPA affect me? Are there schools I can get into with a 2.8?

3) I have to get a job & pay for graduate school on my own. How tough is it to balance work & graduate school?

4) How many schools should I apply to?

5) Are there universities that offer online only programs? For the people that are in those, are those challenging?

6) If I'm applying to a master's program thats 2 years, can I stretch it out & complete it in 3 years?

7) Any other advice that I didn't ask in a question is greatly appreciated

Thank you!",4,1,26.191916084695194,GradSchool
ABD,Just passed my proposal defense today.  The next thing my committee expects from me is a first chapter in a couple of months.  This feels surreal.,8,68,27.16386052913964,GradSchool
NSF GRFP Personal Statement,"Does anyone know how far back is ""too far back"" when mentioning your start in research? Is it okay if I were to write about an event from elementary school, or should I start with university-level research?",3,1,26.20329339951001,GradSchool
Advice for a junior undergrad?,"I’m currently a junior undergrad. While it seems like I have plenty of time to figure out grad school, I know I don’t. I’ve started to look for professors at universities all over the country but I’m not entirely sure what I want to do in my field (marine science). I’m already in a lab and will be until I graduate, so I know that I love research and that I want to continue. But taking classes and putting 20 hours in the lab is a lot and I feel my mental health degrading already. 

Therefore I’m curious as to what kind of advice would you give your young self before even applying to grad schools? Would you take a gap year? How early would you start studying for the GRE? Would you go straight to a PhD? Only get a masters? Would you shift your field of study completely? Etc.

I’m trying to plan the next 2 years of my life so that it all doesn’t hit me like a brick wall. I know too many people who started looking into their future “late” and now they’re working a minimum wage customer service job because they don’t know what else to do. 

Any advice is helpful advice",5,2,26.364844325435932,GradSchool
What's the biggest screw up happened that you thought you'd get fired but your advisor forgave you?,,1,11,26.836811918028523,GradSchool
New student - how should i organize sources?,"I just started a masters program this semester.  I'm reading a lot of papers trying to acquire a knowledge base, but i see this quickly becoming a cluttered mess.  

I'm not taking notes, just reading.  Should i be taking notes and creating a like.. catalog of what I've read?

Or eventually will i just become familiar with all the major papers and authors?

Thoughts? Thanks.  it's a thesis",35,50,27.292054973584083,GradSchool
Should I drop out of grad school based on a gut feeling?,"I (22F) am in my 1st semester of a teaching (7-12 English) graduate program. I was an English major/education minor. I've always loved editing and writing. But I hated my education classes. I decided to go into teaching because I didn't know what else to do. Fast forward...

I enjoyed my hands-on fieldwork at two writing camps this summer but I understand that's very different from the actual classroom. I've visited classes since and have counted down the minutes. Today I cried on my way to my classroom visit because I feel trapped in this program. I cried during it because I didn't feel right. Before I had to present the bell rang. And then I thought, as I left, ""This isn't for me. This is a waste of time and money"" ... when I looked up, I saw ""111"" twice on a room, and usually that number (to me) symbolizes being on the right path/train of thought.

I can drop out by tomorrow and apply to masters programs elsewhere on account of mental health reasons (which is a part of this, too). But I have a lease in the town I go to school so I'd be working a menial job for a year. Should I drop out?

TLDR; 1st semester in grad school and my gut feeling is/has been telling me not to be a teacher but I have a lease here, and can drop out by tomorrow with a potential full refund, should I do it?",11,14,27.023050343954452,GradSchool
how normal are my nerves??,"Okay so I’m 5 weeks into my grad program.  Some of my classes I’m fairly comfortable with... especially the class days where we work with the smaller cohort of students and there’s about 13 of us.  It’s definitely more intimate, personal... less nerve racking maybe because we’ve all gotten pretty personal with one another.  This is a Masters in counseling program btw.

However... every time I’m in my other class where both cohorts meet I get these extreme nerves that come on whenever it’s my turn to talk, or if I’m thinking about talking.  The nerves kind of start at my chest.  I literally feel my heart beating out of my check, and it gets faster... my face gets all warm feeling and I feel like I’m about to explode.  When the nerves aren’t so bad I’ll talk but then I can literally hear my voice shaking, and I feel like everyone can tell I’m nervous.  I also have a hard time articulating what I’m trying to say to them... then later in the car I re-say to myself out loud in the car what I wanted to say and I say shit that I wish I could have said cause it sounded way better when I was by myself! Haha ugh! I hate my nerves",2,3,26.71094386247297,GradSchool
"Those who finished a PhD, how was your mental health in months leading to the submission? How did you cope with the stress?",,9,8,26.939369788398896,GradSchool
[Mendeley] Removing DOI/URL from the Chicago Manual of Style author-date style,"People have asked about Mendel and citation software in general here before, so I decided to post this here. Chicago Manual of Style author-date is exactly the style I want, except for the DOIs/URLs included. I checked this [official guide](https://www.mendeley.com/guides/csl-editor/05-example-removing-doi) and [this other guide](https://www.researchgate.net/post/Anyone_knows_how_to_not_show_DOI_in_Mendeley_DESKTOP_that_they_dont_show_up_in_the_bibliography_with_app_style) on how to remove them by creating my own style based on CMoSAD.

However, as soon as I try to apply the style, Word 2016 (on Windows 10) just freezes. It doesn't even give me the ""no responding"" message, it fully freezes up. Mendeley also become unusable, and I have to kill both with the task manager.

I'm not sure what I'm doing wrong; all I did was remove the DOI Conditional and save the style. I know that Mendeley has fallen out of favour because it's no longer open. I'm probably going to abandon it soon, but I'm stuck with it for this project.",2,0,26.517494788398896,GradSchool
"Grad students, how do you decorate your desk?","I recently got a desk in my lab and it's looking pretty bare. 

I'm curious what sorts of things do others keep at their desk? There aren't any windows in mine, so a plant would probably be a bad idea.",19,8,27.021904510621116,GradSchool
Doing good work as an undergrad?,"Hi, so I know that there's a lot of advice on this sub already about grad school, but I'm wondering if someone's been in my situation specifically. 

I'm an undergrad in 3rd year, and I've been doing research part-time for a while now. I've had two pubs as first author so far, and 2 more on the way. I love my work, but I feel like it conflicts a lot with class and my social life. At the same time, I'm not sure what is expected of me, and it's actually been getting worse as I prepare more publications and get more responsibility. I just keep feeling like I'm making stupid mistakes that a grad student wouldn't make, and that there are people that could easily take my place. Because I'm in computer science and experiments are easy to implement solo, I'm the sole author besides my PI most of the time. But that means that there's no one checking my work, and I just feel as if I might be committing subtle bugs (after all, if I write class assignments that have bugs, why not research?) that I don't notice on my own. 

On top of this, I don't have much time to work on research because of a heavy courseload. I'm not sure to what extent to pursue classes and to what extent to pursue research. The reason I want to take the courses in the first place is to be more qualified for research though, since before I would just learn things as I went along in an unsystematic way. 

So if I expend less effort in school, I'll continue to feel unqualified for the research I'm already doing, but if I expend more effort in school I'll have less time to actually prepare publications, which I'm told is the most important part of grad school applications. Sorry for rambling on, but if you've read this far, I'm just wondering if you have any tips for balancing school and research (social life would be great too, if there's time) and plowing ahead with projects even if you're not entirely sure what you're doing and have to learn it on the fly. 

Thanks.",7,0,26.213918399510007,GradSchool
Math Question,"Hello guys. I will study ""natural building stones and gem stones"" as master's degree. My math isn't good enough. I don't know differential equations at all. And now I have to pick one of these lessons. Which one is easier?

1. Applied Mathematics
2. Mathematical Methods
3. Numerical and Approximate Methods
4. Methods of Applied Mathematics

Thank you already :)",4,0,26.37784201062112,GradSchool
How to ask professor to get coffee with you at a conference?,"Hi all,

I'm attending a conference in around a month or so, and noticed that a professor whose lab I'll be applying to will actually be at the conference.

1. Is it acceptable to ask them to get coffee with me? Is this even a good idea?
2. How soon/close to the event should I ask?
3. What should I say in the email? Should I be talking about their research in the email?

Thanks everyone!",5,4,26.87139525136186,GradSchool
Anyone Familiar with Sigma Xi?,"Hi all, 

I just got an invitation to Sigma Xi. After some googling it seems like a pretty legit group. Does anyone have any experience with them? How prominent is it joining this group? What are the obligations? I'm an international studying in the US so I really don't know much about these honor societies and all the ins and outs. 

Thanks!",2,2,26.7524947883989,GradSchool
Being taxed on tuition waiver,"Hey folks.

Is anyone else being taxed on their tuition waiver? I get 1000 a month and 300 of that goes to taxes because they also tax the tuition waiver. So we get taxed like we’re making 2000 instead of 1000. They spread it out so it doesn’t hit all at once, but it’s insane. I remember seeing this in the news that they were considering taxing waivers like income and that it didn’t pass, so I was pretty upset when my first paycheck came in and it was far less than what I budgeted for. 300 dollars coming out of 1000 is a big deal for me and I didn’t know to prepare for it.",7,4,26.920723955065565,GradSchool
How embarrassed are you when mistakes are made during TA,"I made mistakes consecutively during my first two TA sessions. The first one I got the definition wrong (and subsequently calculation wrong) in a problem. The second one I got the nomenclature wrong despite solving the problem correctly. And I explained an experimental procedure irrelevant to my research somewhat inaccurately. 

I could attribute some reasons to being unprepared and just incredibly busy with my research on the day of TA. But i still felt quite embarrassed about those ""rookie"" mistakes despite learning from it. Students seem to take it rather diplomatically. I actually praised them for pointing out the mistakes (another sign that they are paying extra attention !).

Have you had episodes like these ? I started doubting my own ability today.",2,2,26.767726269880377,GradSchool
*Rant* The fluctuating standards for students,"I had a meeting with my mentor over my prospectus (what variables I will examine and procedures). My mentor is pushing me which is great, however, I have seen lab mates graduate with variables that are ""simple (mentors words)"" compared to what I want to look at. Additionally what I am looking at is not as researched as extensively as the last 3 to graduate. It feels that I am trying to ""break new ground"" and simultaneously examine it under the impression that there has been 10+ years with 100s of papers written on the top. 

It feels that I am being pushed more then other students. I try to remain calm and not compare myself to their work. Just hard to justify my mentors words when they have shown acceptance of an ""simple"" variables previously. 

Thanks for coming to my TED talk.",13,9,27.13309664025075,GradSchool
How fast (days) can you write 100 pages?,,8,1,26.73543460321371,GradSchool
I feel like a horrible TA,"I feel like a terrible TA, I’m basically a glorified paper grader but it seems that I can’t even get that right. I try to do the best that I can, but it seems like I’m constantly making errors in grade input, making exam keys and writing exams and other assignments. Part of the issue is I’m dyslexic and single letters and digits are hard, but I can’t blame it all on that. It feels even worse since my position as a level 2 TA isn’t supposed to be that hard, and I worry that I’m just disappointing my supervisor and students. Is there anything I can do to improve at my job? Or any advice that y’all can give me?",11,10,27.276105899510007,GradSchool
How do you study all day long without feeling exhausted?,"During exams I have to study alone until evening; I take breaks and have a 2-hours lunch, but in the evening I feel a bit dizzy. How do you treat yourself in these cases? :)",2,5,27.12277256617667,GradSchool
I am terrified on grad school,"I’m currently in my senior year of undergrad. I have been contemplating going to grad school for environmental science/GIS/geoenvironmental studies. My B.S. is in Environmental Biology. All these posts on this sub terrify me. I’m so afraid I won’t be able to handle the work or deal with the stress. I have already reached out to a few schools and talked to professors there. I just don’t know if it will be worth it. Any advice would be appreciated.

Edit: Typo in title of*",4,0,26.821730899510005,GradSchool
What are questions you wish you could have asked your professor of interest/PI or other grad students in the lab prior to applying to a grad program or accepting an admission?,What are some questions that came up for you throughout the admissions/acceptance process as well as questions that have come up for you going through your Masters or PhD that you wish you would have asked about prior to applying or getting into a particular program? So much of grad program knowledge just seems to come with experiencing things but what are aspects that looking back you could have asked someone but didn't?,6,3,27.135642936547047,GradSchool
[Advice] First-year Master's student who feels stuck.,"Hi all,

I graduated college in June and am now starting my Master's degree in Poli Sci part-time, two classes per week. I work 20 hours a week at a coffee shop, and get paid 10 hours per week to be a TA for an undergrad course. These forms of income are best described as treading water.

I've tried breaking up my workload into bite-sized portions to do every day. I've tried building my schedule with gaps for meals, studying, breaks, etc. The problem is that I can't ever relax it seems. I dread doing my readings and subsequently can't spend my free time feeling free. 

I've tried doing my readings first and then letting myself have the rest of the day - but going for 4-6 hours at my job in the early mornings, having some lunch, and then diving into dense material just plain sucks. I'm completely dumbfounded at this point.

What strategies have you tried that may be unconventional? Working less hours is not an option for me unfortunately, and I want to continue my belief that I can study material that is my passion while still feeling like my life isnt commandeered by looming peer-reviewed journals that make me want to cry. Thanks for your help!",5,4,27.281314232843343,GradSchool
So I made an ass of myself to my graduate advisor,"Earlier today in a brief anxiety spell, I sent an email to my professor basically saying, ""I have no clue what I am doing and I don't think I will be able to complete my thesis, none of my codes are working correctly and I don't have the skills to fix them in time. So I will be dropping out of the Master's program. My apologies for wasting this time.""

However, their response was encouraging me to stay, basically saying that it is only a tiny part that isn't working correctly but even without that, we should have enough to write a thesis.

After calming down a bit, I realized I was a dumb-ass. But now I feel embarrassed to recall by desire to quit, and pride is preventing me from responding and agreeing to stay.

Dear god I am an idiot",54,236,28.183837380991488,GradSchool
Applying to Grad School with no GPA?,"Hey everyone, I'm interested in the idea of applying to grad school, but my undergad didn't record give us GPAs on our transcripts. I went to an art school and got a bfa in illustration, but I am looking into going to grad school for a completely different field, city/urban planning.

how do you apply without a gpa?",14,7,27.458108214324824,GradSchool
"For those of you that teach, what are your key points for success ?","As a PhD student I gave part of a course recently to master students. It wasn't my first time but still, it was challenging. It was a new section  that I had to build from scratch.  
My key takeaway is that you cannot know all about what you teach, and this is hard. So, be prepared to not have all the answers.  Also, practice.  Most of us don't have any hour to spare, but one run through can make you realize that some passages are not that fluid. 
Finally,  ask for honest feedback from the picky students. 

Anything else  ?",4,4,27.503559603213713,GradSchool
Are there any major US/Canadian English lit. departments that are tolerant of doctoral dissertations on a single author?,"I’m based in Ireland, currently completing an MA, and and planning on applying for doctoral programs next year (well, actually reapplying, but that’s a whole other story). I’ve hitherto mostly been looking into programs and supervisors in the UK, which has basically the same sort of university system and culture as Ireland. However I’m also interested in trying for US programs this time round as well – I’m well aware of all the differences in how programs work on either side of the Atlantic, but my only slight issue is as regards the dissertation I’m looking to do.

Since you apply for a UK PhD with your diss. proposal, I’ve had the basic idea for what I’ve wanted to do for a while now, and my proposal is fairly strong AFAIK. In English departments here, it’s fairly common for a student to write their PhD dissertation entirely on a single writer - and my proposal for it is as well.

It’s my understanding that this isn’t particularly common in US or Canadian graduate programs, that the dissertation over there is usually on several writers or a broader theme, that dissertations on single authors are often viewed as less as employable, etc. (I gather that exceptions to this are often made for the likes of Shakespeare or Joyce, but neither of those are what I’m looking to cover – it’s Virginia Woolf, for what it’s worth.)

However my question is: are there any major grad programs that any of you know of in North America that are less strict about this and thus might allow me to pursue such a project? If not, how ought I to inquire about where might be interested (i.e. individual prospective supervisors, graduate admissions officers, graduate chairs, etc.)? Or should I just abandon the intention to do the project as originally planned if I try for a US grad. program?

tl;dr basically just the question in the title of the post.",1,1,27.218015621732228,GradSchool
Being railroaded by a territorial peer-reviewer,"Guys, I am beyond infuriated right now.

So I submit a manuscript and the reviews come back. The first reviewer enjoys it a lot and makes helpful suggestions, the second goes on and on how I did not take into account the theoretical state-of-the-art of the field and that I need to rework the theory section to use it as a foundation. They then cite 5 papers (all with a common author and none with more than 1 or 2 citations from anyone that isn't that author, CURIOUS) that we ""need to use"". I review those papers. They are unclear and meandering, dense and almost impossible to parse, utterly useless for practitioners, which my paper is aimed at. But most importantly, *the theory is not even applicable to my paper because the author makes a fundamental assumption that cannot be applied to my work under any circumstance. In fact, logical extensions of my theory would render their theory obsolete and I could easily write another paper demonstrating this*.

So I write up a polite, but firm response letter detailing why the reviewer's requested changes will not be implemented and send the paper back. This paper has manuscript status logs and according to them, the reviewer returned their second review 12 minutes after confirming the invitation and wrote a two sentence ""review"" that just restated what they said the first time without any acknowledgement whatsoever of my response, claiming that I ""ignored"" their comments. So they didn't read my response obviously.

Now I'm mad, reddit. I contacted the editorial office to notify them of this, and I honestly would not mind if they out and out rejected me at this point. Am I out of line here? Is this common?",28,154,28.38938136247297,GradSchool
Conference abstract for beginning of degree,"Hey guys, I've just started my masters in the physical sciences, and I naively registered to present a poster at a conference at the end of the month. I'm putting together an abstract now, but needless to say, I do not yet have any data, so I was wondering if anyone has input on how to put together an abstract for a predominantly lit review poster. I've jacked the abstract formatting for GSA conferences, to give you an idea of what structure I am trying to adhere to.

\*\*my supervisor is a stickler for correct formatting i.e. formatting for physical sciences vs. social sciences (which makes perfect sense)

If anyone can help, I will bless you with good wishes for all of eternity.

**Abstract**

1. 1  sentence:  Summary statement to place your study in context, define the overall purpose or problem  being addressed. (got it)
2. 1 sentence:  Summary statement of your approach to the problem – mapping done, analyses performed, methods, etc. (got it)
3. 3‐5 sentences:  Meat of the abstract.  Results/Data. (halp)
4. 3‐5 sentences:   Interpretive discussion. (panic)
5. 1 sentence:  Summary statement listing the conclusions of your study. (Cortisol spike)
6. 1 sentence:  Statement relating your study back to the “big picture” – why does this work matter? How will it impact science and society? (got it)",1,1,27.324948492102603,GradSchool
Anyone else feel their advisor is taking advantage of them?,"I'm just beginning my 6th year in a pharmacology program, and I finally feel like I have contributed significantly enough in my lab to think about graduation.

My issue is that I need to get my first project published (manuscript is written--in the process of a few final edits before the next submission). My advisor says she really wants to get this paper published and about once a month actually asks how it is going, but the rest of the time she is constantly giving me side projects to do that take away time that could be spent on this manuscript or my other primary project. These side projects are always pitched as ""temporary"" or ""time-sensitive"" so that I am convinced into helping her before I continue plugging away on the things that will actually go into my thesis. 

I'm struggling with how to bring up my concerns without coming off as lazy (if I worked 60+ hour weeks, I could probably do it all, but I have obligations and hobbies!!). 

There are 4 less-senior members of the lab that could take on some of these projects, but as I am more experienced she often comes to me.",10,16,27.993432288398896,GradSchool
What do y'all do for side money?,I'm sure I'm not the only grad student making enough to break even most months. Do any of you have any simple tricks for some side cash. I know a lot of people tutor but any other ideas?,30,23,28.085781825435934,GradSchool
Your tips on recovering from the dissertation burnout,"Hi fellow grad students. I'm a last year PhD student working on editing my dissertation. Right now, my dissertation feels like a husband of 10 years that I know too well and am  comfortable just with the way he is. I don't feel like looking into him and pushing for his betterment. 

Have you been there? How do you motivate yourself to treat the dissertation like a new BF, and recover the passion to work on it?",2,6,27.818895251361862,GradSchool
Submitting 4 year old GRE Scores?,"I took the GRE in 2015 and graduated 2016. I got 158 verbal, 160 quant, 3.5 writing. I decided to work and not jump right into grad school, but I'm wondering if professors/schools will care about how old my score is when applying for microbiology PhD programs. I can probably do better on writing if I redo it, but risk a lower verbal and quant as I don't have a ton of time to study for an exam.

Thoughts? Does the score being that old matter?",5,3,27.766638306917418,GradSchool
First major writing projects as a PhD student - how do you balance writing & bench work?,"Hello everyone! 

I have several big writing projects coming up in the next month or so (grant proposal, publication, review piece, etc.), and I'm struggling to find a balance between writing and lab work. Unfortunately my ""desk"" is directly in the lab, which is very distracting, and my PI wants us to be physically around all the time (not secluded in a cublicle or library where we are unavailable). 

With these circumstances, I'm struggling to make progress. My lab is very collaborative, with all 10 or so post-docs and grad students working together on various projects. Even if I do sit at my ""desk"" I'm interrupted by questions or requests every 15 minutes. 

With that in mind....

What ways do you guys balance benchwork and writing time? 

Or, better yet, any recommendations on how to politely set boundaries with lab mates when your desk is physically in the lab? 

Thanks!",1,1,27.53269154765816,GradSchool
"3rd year PhD student wants me to call her ""Dr.""","I have been working in different labs over the summer and this semester I started working in a lab that isn't within my department. I have had very little interaction with graduate students outside of my department (Statistics). Additionally, I have only worked with Master level students since I started my graduate program. Now, I work with only PhD students. Typically, I refer to anyone with a PhD as 'Dr.' in the lab - every single one of them has asked I call them by their first name though. This 3rd year PhD student has told (not even asked) me to call her 'Dr.'. I frankly don't care and will call you whatever you want, but in this case I just think it is absurd for her to ask me to do this. I told her this and she has labeled me as an asshole. Tell me I am not crazy.",21,7,28.00483275136186,GradSchool
Do you think I should talk to my advisor about how much I don't have a life?,"Hello all, it is not my first time complaining here but I need to write this stuff regardless. I am working on fly genetics and the experimental part of it is performing the experiments and taking care of the flies. I have a team of undergrads and a new masters student has just started in the lab. (By the way I am just started my second year.) But they are no help at all for the most part. Recently, with classes, writing, babysitting (scheduling) undergrads it started to become unbearable. I am a GRA and I am working in the lab full time. But it is like I don't get what I deserve. We are suppose to have several papers once these experiments conclude. But I won't be the first name in all of these papers and I don't think I can handle that fact. I definitely need some kind of get away from all of this. On top of it all of the people in my lab has a social life apparently. Jealousy plus the tiredness is too much at this point. I know I sound like a whining child.

I am sure y'all experienced something similar. How did you find the strength to continue?",3,8,28.00330497358408,GradSchool
Im scared for grad school,"Im 23 and I'm starting to study for the GRE and secure people to write me letters of recommendation. I feel like im at a time in my life that is so weird... 

I'm going to have to move away from my home town, likely across the country for the grad school programs I want no matter what, they aren't offered here. My boyfriend and I have been together for 7 years and he will come with me. 

I'm scared to have to depend on loans for living expenses. Im scared to plan the entire logistics of moving my whole life a long distance, including two pets. Im soo afraid to be away from my best friend. I'm afraid my boyfriend will be lonely without his friends.

Am I crazy or does everyone feel ridiculously unprepared?",7,2,27.777842010621118,GradSchool
Two years before a PhD,"Looking back, what would you be doing if you knew you had about two years? Besides GRE and other prep stuff, what are some wise things to do in order to prepare for a PhD? In my area, academic publishing means a lot, so I am planning to write an article or two. What else may one be doing?",13,7,28.09612904765816,GradSchool
What’s the dumbest mistake you made???,Made the stupidest mistake and thought my quiz was due the following day online but it was actually the night before.  Quizzes are 10 pts and of you miss them there is no exception.  I’m so upset at myself... I just cried and got the worse headache now.  Please send me the stupidest shit you ever did in grad school but still came out alive so I stop feeling so bad for myself.,28,9,28.209566547658156,GradSchool
classifying state residency when you have moved around so much?,"My ""permanent residence"" is in New York State- car registration, license, but haven't paid taxes or lived there in several years. I finished a master's program in Boston last December- moved to Austin to work for a few months and now in Atlanta. I ask because I am in an accelerated MSN program at an incredibly expensive college and I am just trying to finish the BSN portion and see where I can apply elsewhere. Specifically, I am in the Family Nurse Pracititoner track but I knew from the beginning I have wanted to do Psych. I was deadset on going straight through, but I am thinking that these kinds of programs are not beneficial for inexperienced nurses and want to take a year in between to gain experience. I really like Atlanta so I was looking at GSU's program, but there aren't many other options. As much as I really, REALLY do not want to go back to NY, I just can't stomach the thought of continuing to pay exorbitant amounts of money and not even be prepared or able to get a decent paying NP job after being hundreds of thousands in debt.'",1,2,27.911777195806305,GradSchool
Can I copy paste redundant information between documents for an NIH fellowship,"IDK where to ask this so please point me to a more appropriate forum if need be.

I'm applying to my first NIH fellowship. There's a lot of redundancy between the components. For example my biosketch and my background + training plans want a detailed description of my research experience. Do these text have to be different? Can I copy paste this info between them? There is no indicator that this is a problem that I can find in the fellowship instructions. There are lot of components like this... like why I chose the institution and also facilities and resources.... Ostensibly the facilities and resources are why I chose the institution.",2,1,27.769531825435934,GradSchool
Masters in Finance after bachelor in finance,Hi people of reddit. At the moment I have a bachelor degree in finance and I plan to take CFA lvl 1 next spring. So I think at some point in my life I might need to do master ( hopefully not but who knows). Is it crazy to pursue masters in finance if you already have bachelor in finance?,0,1,27.77892997358408,GradSchool
Writing Burnout,"Without going into too much detail, I’ve had a rough year. This meant that during my summer, I was writing essays that should have been done in April throughout the course of July and August. I didn’t give myself much of a break. 

I find that even though I can still read and process material with no problem, I just can’t seem to write as well as I usually do. My grades haven’t seemed to taken a hit (although I’ve only submitted one assignment so far, so it’s a little early to tell). Has anyone had this issue? Any advice would be appreciated!",3,9,28.297193862472973,GradSchool
On a scale from Leslie Knope to Jean Ralphio...,How douchey do you think it is to have diplomas framed in your office?,80,142,28.996661455065563,GradSchool
I feel more confused about what I want to do with my life now that I'm done with my post-grad degree than ever before,Submitted my LL.M. dissertation in August and am facing the utter terror of having less of an idea of what I want to do now than I did after my undergraduate degree. Thankfully have a bit of time (and the financial means) to tide myself over a bit and figure out what it is that I want to do but have such a hard time even knowing where it is to begin... advice? Tips? Solidarity with the confusion?,3,19,28.548281825435936,GradSchool
Asking for a letter of reccomendation from an undergraduate professor while in grad school.,"Hello All!

I am starting my third year of my Math PhDand there is a summer program that I want to apply to that requires two letters of recommendation. I managed to secure one letter from a Professor that I believe will write me something decent.

When I asked my advisor on the other hand, he said, ""I am willing to write you one, but it would probably be better to find someone who knows you very well. Better than I do.""

So with that in mind, will getting an LOR from an undergraduate Professor look really bad coming from a grad student?",3,2,28.101348955065564,GradSchool
Is it better to pursue a master's (not highly ranked school) with a 8 month co-op or pursue a master's (highly ranked school) with a 12 week internship? (Canada).,"Hi. I am wanting to attend McGill, which offers a twelve week internship with a master's program. However, uWaterloo offers an 8 month co-op which sounds great. Yet, I have always wanted to attend McGill, because of the culture of Montreal, highly academic, and overall it's prestigious to an extent and internationally well known. I am not exactly sure what to do. I could always do a second master's at McGill down the road if possible. Would a twelve week internship standout on my CV? I have little professional work experience, unfortunately - which is why I want to pursue a Master's with a co-op or internship. Would organizations/government value a degree from McGill more because of the name?",2,0,28.018397566176677,GradSchool
"If you could have given your past self any advice before starting your first year as a graduate, what would it be?","I'm just curious about what input you all would have as a community on this. I'm hosting an orientation for our (biology) department's new incoming graduate students later in the week, and am planning on doing a grad student to grad student panel where they can ask questions, and I can offer them any advice for getting started. If it's one thing I've learned though, it's that everyone's individual experience is wholly different when it comes to entering graduate school, picking/ dealing with an advisor, meeting deadlines, etc. I'd like to get them all started off as strong as prepared as possible, but I feel that my personal advice won't encompass all of the trials and tribulations of grad school, so I'd love to hear your thoughts!",3,1,28.058571177287785,GradSchool
Search for Agriculture / Computer Science PostGrad,"Hello everyone,

I'm searching for a postgraduate degree in Europe combining compsci and agriculture. Does anyone know any?

Thanks in advance!",0,0,28.066522566176673,GradSchool
Applying for ChemEng Grad School Advice Requested,"Obligatory Stats: 168Q, 160V, 4.5AW 3.8 GPA (double-majoring in chemistry and chemical engineering) at a top 10 university in chemical engineering (and top 25 in chemistry) and looking to apply for (ideally) a PhD in ChemEng, but would be okay with Master's

I have had one summer research position (summer 2018) in a department outside of my major and an industrial internship (summer 2018) at a small company.  Those three months in the summer of 2018 are my only research experience.  I had to have a job to pay bills due to my financial stress and was not able to hold a volunteer research position.  My three recommenders are a close faculty member in chemical engineering, a well-known professor in chemical engineering and the advisor of my club, and my research advisor for my internship.  I'm concerned now because this is prime hiring season and I don't know if I stand a chance of getting into grad school and should just take a job right out of undergrad.

My questions are:

Do I stand a chance of getting admitted? (Should I only apply for Master's?)

Could I mitigate my lack of research experience in my SOP by mentioning financial difficulties while highlighting leadership (president of our chapter of the American Chemical Society my junior year) and working while maintaining a high GPA?

Should I just put a pause on grad school for now and search for a job?

Thanks in advance for any responses.",3,0,28.12599015876927,GradSchool
Advice for dealing w/ (Borderline) Belligerent Student?,"Originally posted to wrong sub, so I deleted. Apologies if you've seen this already.

TL;DR Cocky kid without the skills to back it up tried to correct me, they were wrong, and it was a derail.

I'm a TA at an American R1 for context, and I had a student in a very low-level freshman level class take me on a two minute digression where they argued with me on a routine part of a calculation. Instructors make mistakes on blackboard calculations all the time, but in this case, they took issue with a well-established pratice. I explained that what they had in mind was unnecessary and told them not to worry about it for the moment (I was running out of class time). 

They were insistent that I wasn't approaching the problem correctly based on an aesthetic argument (""doesn't seem very scientific"") and I assured them that this is how the field handles these things. They then proceeded to make a comment that I genuinely missed as I hauled the whole class back on track, but what little I caught of it was snide. Because I didn't catch it, I couldn't decide how to respond, so I ignored it (which may have been appropriate even if I knew what they said.)

In retrospect and in future, I'll ask them to prove their pet theories mathematically on paper for me and move on when I'm pressed for time (not in those exact words). I am wondering if anyone has other advice.",16,3,28.400943862472975,GradSchool
calling supervisor by their first name?,"hi there! im a first year masters student, so this might be a silly question. i have heard other grad students in my research group refer to our supervisors by their first name, is this okay for me to do? thank you!",13,2,28.4156197883989,GradSchool
It's GRE day and I don't feel confident at all,"How much is Grad School really gonna care if I bomb this?

Edit: beat my target by 9 points, thank you all for the encouragement!",35,140,29.390179973584086,GradSchool
What area of materials science should I go into to have a high marginal impact on climate change?,"I have my undergrad in chemical engineering, a couple years experience post-undergrad working with aerogels, and research experience in several different fields (bio, magnetics, etc) from my time in school. I'm looking to go back to school for materials science/engineering. I'm very interested in doing some kind of work to help reduce/mitigate the impact of climate change. I'm also interested in electronic materials.

The obvious path, and the one I've done the most looking into so far, is to try to get involved in research surrounding solar power. However, I'm worried that the solar power field is already so saturated that my marginal impact will be small. Are there other areas in materials science/engineering where I could have a higher marginal impact on climate change? Bonus points if those areas are in electronic materials, but that's not a requirement. There are lots of other interesting areas of materials science that I'd love working in.",9,1,28.296499418028528,GradSchool
Is Two Papers Too Much to Expect from a Master's?,"A little bit of background, my Master's degree is in an environmental science related field and my advisor is an ecosystem ecologist. Thus, projects in this field often involve heavy fieldwork data collection before you can even start analyzing the data and writing papers. I have already successfully defended my thesis, submitted my thesis manuscript to a journal, received comments from peer reviewers, and am working with my committee to address those comments and resubmit. However, my advisor expects two papers from me and the 2nd paper is currently in a state where I'm still creating figures with just some of the results section written. I am over two years in, am a sustaining student, and I honestly want to just leave to make more money and not have to worry about paper 2. Other Master's students in the same program also have an advisor who expects two papers but he takes the lead on the 2nd paper as he knows his students are busy working in industry and won't have time to revise and write. Mine is not doing this. At times I feel like a failure for not having more of paper 2 done but at others I'm questioning my advisor's expectations. His previous Master's student was able to do this but it seems like a monumental effort to publish two papers within two years as a new inexperienced scientist. Isn't the norm for a PhD three papers, why should a Master's student be expected to do one less in 3 less years? How do you all feel about this, is this an unreasonable expectation or should I have done more to try and meet it?",6,1,28.341545714324827,GradSchool
Red Lines in Report,"Ok so after a whole year of research and things, my PI asked me, for the first time ever, to write a report for our client just kind of summarizing some of the main findings, what we're changing for our next specimen, and why. I wrote a 3 page report, gave it to him, and a few days later (last night) he sent me back the 3 pages with probably all but 5 sentences red lined.

&#x200B;

1. Is this common? Am I just bad at technical writing for academia?
2. If he explicitly wrote out sentences that he prefers, is it plagiarism for me to use those sentences exactly? His name *is* first on the report.",6,1,28.3453072883989,GradSchool
"""Safe"" schools for a niche area of research","I'm applying to PhD programs with the intent to research artificial intelligence through the lens of human learning and cognition. There are 2 universities that are a perfect fit for this, and 3-4 that are a good fit. However, these are all very competitive schools.

In reading conferences/looking at collaborators in this research area and with these schools, finding ""safer"" schools has been extremely difficult. I can sometimes find one faculty member that's working on something sort of related, but that's about as close as it gets. I've gone through most of the largest universities and all of the Googlable searches I can think of. Does anyone have any advice as to how to proceed? Should I be open to joining a general AI program and studying this niche on my own?",13,0,28.351673029139636,GradSchool
"What is your system for reading for, preparing for, and participating in seminars with heavy discussion?","Trying to improve my study methods and performance in classes. I feel like I'm more talkative in the ones where I know a lot of relevant material and can make connections easily. But I also get kinda nervous talking in class regardless. I am also struggling for time to read closely, and can only skim and read intro/conclusion a lot of the time. I have heard that this is the norm but I get worried when I go to classes that I didn't read enough. But often I can say a few good things in class this way...still I feel like maybe there are more efficient and effective ways to be a grad student? Idk. Would love to hear advice/tips/routines/etc.",3,6,28.797818862472973,GradSchool
"MSc defense coming up and I don't understand the Stats, would really appreciate help!","Hey guys,

My defense is coming up next week, and I've been pushing off trying to understand why we ran the stats that we did - I don't think my supervisor understands it either because every time I ask him, he brushes it off and can't seem to explain fully why we did what we did. And I'm starting to doubt whether it's even correct...  I have no idea how to justify the tests we ran and i'm really panicking so I hope someone here can help. I've bolded my main questions throughout this post. To put simply what I did:

I used multivariate ANOVA and univariate ANOVA. Fisher Post Hoc to determine significance for all data except for one, where we ran independant t-tests for one of the data sets. Now to give more info:

2 sets of data were analyzed with Multivariate ANOVA: 

1. Data set #1: my dependant variable was number of cells counted. Independant variables were digits 1,2,3,4,5 ; sex (female/male) and genotype (knockout/wildtype)
2. Data set #2: my dependant variable was the % of response to different amounts of forces of mechanical stimuli. Independant variables were sex (female/male) and genotype (knockout/wildtype) and **should the different amounts of forces of mechanical stimuli also be an independant variable?** This was also the test where my supervisor used independant t-tests to determine significance levels at each force between wild type and knockout mice... and I have no idea why.  I know he didn't find significance using Fisher post hoc.

**Am I right in thinking that multivariate anova should be used here because I have 1 dependant variable and multiple independant variables? Is there anything about assumptions/normal distribution/tests i should have ran on my data before deciding to use ANOVA?**

For Univariate ANOVA:

1. My dependant variable was time spent on a hot plate in seconds. My Independant variables were sex (female/male) and genotype (knockout/wildtype) - **So I thought that for univariate ANOVA.. you should only use it if you have 1 independant variable and 1 dependant variable, was this the right test to use in this case? If so, can someone explain to me how to justify why univariate ANOVA should be used in this case?**

&#x200B;

I don't want to make this post too long so i'll stop here but thank you so much in advance. 

\- From a crying grad student",7,6,28.902934603213712,GradSchool
How do you pick yourself up after an especially unproductive day?,"I'm just looking for some advice on how to hop back on the saddle. I started the day with a to-do list, and then got completely derailed by a few administrative distractions. At the moment, I'm feeling pretty...blah.

What are some techniques you use so you're not so hard on yourself, and can start fresh the next day?",10,8,28.995249418028525,GradSchool
Tips on paper discussions for lab meetings,Does anyone have tips on how to lead a paper discussion? PI wants us to read papers and lead discussions every week and I’m starting us off. How do I make sure it’s more of a discussion and doesn’t end up with me talking at people?,4,7,28.96855960321371,GradSchool
Help me out with gathering data,"Hey guys, could you help me out with gathering data? It's a short survey that takes approximately 5-10 minutes to fill in. It's mobile friendly. I need to get enough responses and you would be a big help! 

I would really appreciate it, but if you don't have time that's fine ;) 

https://tilburgss.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6FG47lMoTmP4PFb

Thanks in advance!",3,0,28.64633738099149,GradSchool
Overwhelmed pursuing a master's degree in new field,"I completed my undergrad in biomedical engineering and I then spent the next 2 years working in industry in business operations and supply chain for medical devices.

I've recently gone back to grad school to pursue a master's degree in Analytics which is a new field for me. I'm currently in an optimization class.  I feel kind of overwhelmed. I feel like there's so many prerequisites and foundational things that I don't know. I never took Linear Algebra in undergrad and never did much with MATLAB.

How do you all go about balancing keeping up and doing well with current courses while getting up to speed with the foundational stuff?",7,6,29.12315451062112,GradSchool
Resources to assist in writing a strong letter of intent/personal statement?,"BS in psychology class of 17’. Worked in a residential treatment facility and had the pleasure of working with LCSW’s (licensed clinical social worker) and am incredibly inspired to become an LCSW myself.  

So I’m applying to master’s of social work programs but feel stuck when it comes to formulating my letter of intent/personal statement. 

Any resources that anyone knows about to help brush up on my writing?",1,1,28.816777195806303,GradSchool
"Applying to grad school in the fall, thinking about taking a class before I do.","Like the title says, I'm gearing up for grad school applications (I'm in my 20s, have been working in my field for a couple years). My GPA isn't where I want it, so I want to supplement my resume by taking graduate school courses this fall quarter, and also show that I'm interested in continuing my application. 

I'm split between two classes, both in my field:

1. Is a seminar class that lasts all school year long, and meets in evenings. This class contains shadowing opportunities. However, I wouldn't be able to present a grade for this class on my applications.
2. Would meet 3 times a week, which would definitely interrupt my 9-5 job, but would \*hopefully\* let me add a solid grade to supplement my applications. 

What should I do?",5,2,29.032830436547044,GradSchool
Lack of motivation and bad working enviroment in my lab - Quit PhD ?,"Hi guys,

So I finished my Bsc and Msc in Biology in Greece and wanted to persue a PhD opportunity but as funding was non existent in Greece, I went to Belgium to try to secure a national funding. The first time I tried to get it through a PhD-like proposal presentation, I failed but my P.I. found a funding from the lab to keep me until I can try for a second time next year. In 2018, I got the funding and I already had done some work to show in the Funds Commitee.

After that, things went downhill.. The lab and the P.I. are awful, they are completely lacking communication skills, they barely help and can't properly give information/advice (maybe it's also the language gap of English and French). They are distant and think less of me. So in my second year the progress was almost non existent and I went through a PhD progress presentation to my 3 people PhD commitee and they said that even though the results are OK, I share the project with too many people in the lab (something the P.I doesn't understand) and my input needs to be higher. I argued with that with my P.I, he said that other people say that I am missing from the lab and I don't work enough, which is not true. Sometimes I leave early in the afternoon cause I am a kind of person that likes to have a social life, do sports etc while people here are so focused to work that they lack a well rounded lifestyle (which might be OK for them, no judgement, but it is not for me). 

So I said to my P.I that if he doesn't start to respect me, start giving good advice (he almost knows nothing on the project and just waits results) and not constantly act as a guy who just monitors me, waits for a mistake or an opportunity to give me critisism, I will stop my PhD. 

The thing is that I don't want nor I am able to stay for a 5th year of PhD here as my funds are for 4 years and I have to go back to Greece to do my military service and find a job. But from all those things that happened, I find it difficult that in 2 years I will be able to do as much work as they want me to defend my PhD and I don't want to waste 4 years for nothing. 

What should I do ? Any advice or similar experiences will be much appreciated... Sorry for the long post",4,14,29.48139525136186,GradSchool
Grad School Application Question,"I am applying to a program where I need to attach my transcript to the online application. I have successfully retrieved my transcript from the National Clearinghouse. It comes secured/signed which only lets me open it in Adobe Acrobat reader. Should I attach this file or make a copy of the document and attach a new copy where it will open in Preview/Chrome?
It is not specified in the application, so I wanted to know if anyone else came into this situation before?


Thanks for your input!",5,0,28.891013306917415,GradSchool
Tips on Discussion section.,"Hello everyone, 

I really should not be on reddit right now, but here I am! I am a Master's thesis student in the field of Ecology trying to finish up my thesis document. I have successfully completed the introduction all the way to the results (and figures/tables); however, I am really stuck on the discussion section.

I was wondering if anyone had any tips on how they go about writing this section? I would greatly appreciate any advice as my thesis is due on 11/1 and I have barely made headway on this section. So, I am freaking out slightly. Thank you for any advice you may have!",1,3,29.18989062173223,GradSchool
"Looking to do a Masters (Public Policy or International Relations) In China. However, I already graduated law school...","Title says all. I am looking to get a Masters degree in a political field in China (Public Policy, International relations, etc.). I've done some digging but have no idea where to begin with the application process.  Can anyone help me out with this?",0,1,28.95523784395445,GradSchool
How to handle the week before your qualifying exam oral defense?,"My qual is next wedesnday and I’m simultaneously freaking out while also feeling really prepared and kind of over studying. 

I’ve already done and submitted the written proposal and feel good defending it though I expect many aspects of my project will change afterwards. The oral defense is 2-3 hours of questions over our presentation. I’ve done practice runs with other students in my department and they say I’m mostly ready but tend to ramble and create tangents sometimes if I don’t know the immediate answer.

What would you guys suggest I do to finish preparing? My PI says I should only spend like 2 hours studying per day and do some experiments this week and next to focus on something else, but to me that feels almost irresponsible.",1,2,29.140723955065564,GradSchool
Do you guys ever skip over entire chapters when reading books?,"Now, I know that it is okay to skip over chapters of books, especially depending on one’s interests and/or research. But I’ve been slowly trying to break myself of the “must read everything mentality” since taking courses that require 1 book (plus articles) read a week, and still struggle with this dilemma. Do you guys ever just skip over entire chapters? Or do you at least give it the ol’ read the first (and last) sentence of each paragraph? In the past, I found that as long as I have enough to speak about i class that this is never a problem. However, I always feel bad about this in terms of not giving the work (which can be extremely interesting) enough attention or feeling like I might be arriving to class under prepared. Or worse, I might forget everything I “read” because I skimmed too hard.",58,135,30.15559664025075,GradSchool
Hooking up with an undergrad in my lab?,"Is it really bad go hook up with an undergrad in you lab if you're a grad student. 
Just so everyone knows I'm a 24 year old female grad student and the undergrad is a 20 year old male. 

How much trouble would you get in if caught? 

Both parties are completely consenting.",11,0,29.053536455065565,GradSchool
Looking for History program recommendations in New England,"I have a 3.9 GPA and I'm in my Junior year of undergrad. I have multiple internships and assistantships under my belt already and have more planned. I'm also a McNair scholar if any of you know that program. 

I currently attend undergrad in the Midwest, but my fiance lives in CT and doesn't want to move too far from home, but is going to follow me to the city I attend for school since his job is flexible on location. 

I'm a History and Native American Indigenous Studies double major and a Deaf Studies minor. 

I'm interested in both early history, indigenous history, and public history (as I'm starting to believe I want to work in a Museum).

Any recommendations would be much help.",9,1,29.05428876988038,GradSchool
How to not be defeated by your PhD,,6,13,29.736788769880377,GradSchool
HEEEEELLLLLPPPPP!!!,"Hey hey! Help out a friend in need! Take this quick 5 minute consumer survey; It’s completely voluntary and all responses are anonymous. It’s for my MBA entrepreneurship class. Feel free to share it with your friends as well. 

Thanks a bunch! 

https://form.jotform.com/92577829999184",2,0,28.863710066176676,GradSchool
First year Master's student beginning new job as an exam proctor and grader. What should I expect?,"So I just started my Master's program in applied economics, and I was offered a job position of being an exam proctor and a grader (most likely exams, but possibly homework assignments, as well) for undergraduate economics/business classes. I have never done this before, so I'd like to ask you guys: what should I expect from doing this job? What resources should I use if I am having troubles with this position, if they ever come up?",1,2,29.440527195806308,GradSchool
Should I begin my STEM personal statement with an short story?,"I've been reading up on the best ways to write a personal statement, with some statements beginning with a short story either from a third or first person point of view.  This is often pushed in undergraduate college essays but I'm just not sure if it is the best thing to do when writing for a STEM based graduate program.  I think this could work as answer as to why I am interested in the selected field of study.  However, I'm worried that this may be seen as superfluous and distracting as the applicant readers are less likely to care about any creative writing and more about the content of the application.  Should I avoid writing a short first personal narrative as my introduction or would you think this would help to strengthen a personal statement? Thanks",1,1,29.295885992102605,GradSchool
"New Plant/Microbial B.S., looking towards grad school....","I'm a new graduate in the Twin Cities (MN, USA) and I'm looking for some insight for career/academic opportunities if I were to pursue a PhD in Plant Biology with an emphasis on biochemistry and molecular biology. I'm especially interested in genetic editing and food or product creation. I really enjoyed learning about metabolic processes and the terpenoid compounds. If there are any Plant Bios out there please help!! Your feedback is much appreciated :)",1,3,29.56787673284334,GradSchool
Dealing with failure,"Hi all, I'm starting the second year of a 3-year master's program, with a field based research thesis. My first season of data collection was an utter failure. For reasons outside of my control, I got a much, much smaller sample size than we anticipated and I can't use the data I have to answer my original research question, or any other research question I can think of at the moment. I have a conference coming up in a month where I am supposed to present preliminary results and I have nothing. I'm trying to pull myself back up by my bootstraps and try again, but I feel so disheartened. 

On top of that, my adviser wants me to decide this month whether or not I want to convert to a PhD so we can make funding allocation decisions. I was considering it before but right now it's just hard to imagine sticking with this for longer than I originally planned, having the additional pressure of needing to publish, do prelims, all that. Even though my adviser has been really supportive I just feel like a total fuck-up and I have no faith that I can do any better going forward. Any field scientists dug themselves out of a similar situation? How did you cope and find your way back? How did you manage to succeed even after all the time and effort you spent seemed like a waste?",7,8,29.86946238099149,GradSchool
Got a B- on my first grad school exam,"Did far below my peers on my organic chem exam, got a B- for it.  Organic chem is my hardest course, but I’m doing well in my other two courses. It kinda feels like a slap in the face since organic chem was my best class in undergrad.  I studied as best as I could for it too. I honestly don’t think I could’ve done better. 

Will I be alright?  How will this affect rotation labs?  This has really got me down.

Edit: thank you for all your stories and support everyone! It really helped me calm down. I’m doing fine in all my other classes, and I’m doing well in my research lab. I think I might just cut my losses in this class and make it up by doing better in lab. 1 B- on my transcript will be manageable as long as I do well in my other classes.",61,69,30.410318862472973,GradSchool
do you ever stop getting anxious about talks?,asking for a friend,8,7,29.89926562173223,GradSchool
MS without thesis for exposure?,"I am interested in doing a PhD in Marine Biology in the next few years. I'd rather do a masters first in order to ease my transition into the PhD and because my undergrad major isn't the same field. Based on my research on this forum, a masters with a thesis is preferred if going into academia. However, I feel like I should do a Non-thesis degree in order to experience more courses and to identify my interests before going into a PhD program and concentrating on a topic. My priority is in widening my exposure to the field rather than improving my PhD admissions chance. Is my rationale wrong?",3,5,29.826094325435935,GradSchool
Comps for a M.S. student entering a Ph.D program,Basically what the title says. If I have an M.S. and matriculate into a Ph.D program do I still have to take comps? And when would I take them?,3,2,29.907112843954454,GradSchool
Trying to get over the last hurdle,"Currently finishing up the last (sadly overdue) paper for my MA. This program has been so much, it’s only a year so there’s a lot of course work that has to be done in a short time, and I’m only now feeling like I’m getting a grasp on the whole grad school things, learning how best I operate to do work, readings, etc. Frustrated it’s taken so long to get to this point (had some health stuff, hence the overdue work).

So grateful my prof gave me extra time (yay chronic illnesses) but now I have to get this paper done tonight so I can graduate and my fatigue and anxiety is making it almost impossible atm. The stress from the paper, and worry over the grade, and stress of just having come back home is all culminating in a less than ideal mental situation atm.

Kind words would be appreciated. I am so close, but it still feels so damn far.",2,1,29.835758677287785,GradSchool
fields to transition into from Modern Languages,"hey guys

i got a degree in German Lang & Lit. i used to want to be a German professor, but after watching every German teacher I've had struggle to keep their job, i am looking to transition away.

i am currently in Spain teaching English in a post graduate program (just a certificate,) but am enjoying my time. it has got me thinking about other paths I might not have considered.

I am considering an MA in TESOL. job market seems pretty good in spain (I live here with my SO and enjoy it quite a bit.) could always do okay in the US too.

what other fields are within arms reach? I am assuming some things like History, Sociology, continuing German of course. I don't want to come across as diving into something willy nilly, I just want to manage my expectations. 

Ideally something that lends itself to employment in Spain or US.  that being said, my SO is a total smartypants electrical engineer and could get a job in Germany. although it's very hard to get a job there outside of STEM, if you have any ideas I am open.",5,2,30.003247103213713,GradSchool
In ~30 hours I’ll be starting my PhD in the UK. Any advice for internationals?,"I’d already started a PhD programme in another country that also runs on the 3-4 year schedule, so I’m not too concerned about general PhD stuff, just more the social side of things being an international student who doesn’t know that much about the UK.

I’m travelling completely alone and I’d usually prefer to spend a night at home by myself rather than go out and meet people, so making friends and getting hobbies is going to be a massive problem. I’ve never gotten homesick before, but maybe I will now, I don’t know. 

The culture might be pretty different and I’m also a bit worried about losing my accent or just not fitting in.",10,22,30.55670775136186,GradSchool
How to list GRE scores on CV?,"I am applying to a plant science graduate program. The professor specifically said ""resume/CV including GRE scores""  
The problem is I can't find an example of how to list my GRE score on a CV. Any help or examples would be greatly appreciated!",11,0,29.85447395506556,GradSchool
Spreadsheet crowdsourcing grad student working conditions,,9,1,29.861453121732232,GradSchool
Questions on Human-Computer Interactions Master's Program,"Hello all,  

&nbsp;


I'm considering enrolling in the EIT (European Institute of Innovation and Technology) Digital Masters Program in HCI (Human-Computer Interaction). The program is relatively new so if anyone knows much about it or has any opinions of it after reading through the below link please let me know.  


&nbsp;


https://masterschool.eitdigital.eu/programmes/hcid/  


&nbsp;


Overall it seems like a great way to advance my career as a Software Engineer while also studying abroad for two years, but I have a few hangups I just wanted to vent here and see what people more knowledgeable than I think.  


&nbsp;


* The program is ~$27k. I have enough money saved to cover the majority of this along with living expenses, but I've always heard that Engineers shouldn't ever pay for their own Master's. On top of this, I'm worried about whether or not it's worth 2+ years of lost income from not working. I enjoy my job now and make good money, but nothing crazy for a Software Engineer.
* At the end of the program, I'll have two Masters degrees - one from the each university I study at. In the marketplace, is this equivalent to a single Masters from a two-year program?
* A lot of the value of a Masters is in the connections/network you build while enrolled. I don't have plans to stay in Europe for more than a year or two after graduation, so am I essentially missing out on critical network-building that I would get in a US Masters?  


&nbsp;


In general, I know that this program will be a good way to advance my career and explore the world for a two-year stint. I guess I'm just concerned as to whether or not this is the smartest career/financial move for me right now.  


&nbsp;


Any and all advice is feedback appreciated! :)",3,1,29.912807288398895,GradSchool
What resources do you use for formatting and submitting your first manuscript?,"Obviously I know where to find ""instructions for authors"" for the journals I'm interested in. My question relates to whether you use a specific template for writing and other tools for managing your document. Thanks in advance.",6,1,29.984242473584082,GradSchool
How early should I contact potential grad advisors?,"I'm going to graduate undergrad in december of 2020. 

I have a list of grad advisors that I would really love to work with. And I have what I consider a lot of experience in the field and subdiscipline which I'm going into.

I was thinking about starting to contact people right about now. However, I'm not really sure what the optimum timing is here. Is this too early to reach out? Or should I go ahead and start the process?

(I'm in the biology/ecology field by the way)

Any advice is appreciated! Thanks",20,1,30.063524880991487,GradSchool
GRE compared to the ASVAB?,"Does anyone here have experience with both tests? How would you say they compare?

I never took the SATs or ACTs, but I did have to take the ASVAB to join the military. I *also*  took (and passed) the DLAB. 

Currently finishing prep for the GRE in the next few weeks and was hoping someone could shed some light on whether or not there would be similarities, either in structure or difficulty",7,1,30.088142936547047,GradSchool
Best way to take notes on a pdf on a $100 budget?,"Pretty much I noticed how many articles I'm going to have to read in pdf is there anything you'd suggest to make note-taking easier since I remember more if I do it by hand. I was thinking of using a Wacom tablet or something but came to you guys for suggestions. Also, would I need any special software for the note-taking?",20,4,30.41891839951001,GradSchool
Any success stories for getting into grad school with low gpa?,"Just curious to see if there is anyone out there with a success story for getting your desired grad program with a less than stellar gpa. 

My undergrad school is a top 100 program so the uni is competitive.

During undergrad years I worked two jobs and one of them is directly related to my masters field but my gpa suffered badly (2.62) 

So I have 7 years work experience with my field, did decent on the GRE (318) and have great letters of rec. 

Would love to hear from you beautiful people and hear your stories!",18,3,30.278825806917414,GradSchool
best online grad schools for mba / health care / management?,"hi i am thinking of apply to grad school online like next year or later.  masters programs

what're the best online grad schools? 

my reqirements: no letter of recommendation.  i didnt think grad school can be admitted without a letter, but tons of friends got into grad school with just a transcript.  no resume or antything either!

also requirement: diploma wont say its from online school (not a super important requriement)

subjects interested in are: 

* mba, 

* heath care, 

* management

i have looked at ""university of the people "".  what others are there?  what would you recommend?

my gpa is not good but at least a 2.0.  a friend got into mba school with horrible grades like nearly straight f's in one sememster.  i think his gpa like 2.01.

tuition fees unimportant, just need easy requirements to get in

thank you!",15,2,30.312494788398897,GradSchool
Is an iPad (or similar device) worth what it’ll cost as a PhD student?,"I currently have a mid-range Dell laptop (RIP my MacBook Pro, how I miss you) that works fine but is large, heavy, and difficult to transport. I’ve been thinking about getting an iPad for reading and annotating papers for research/working on my dissertation prospectus on the go. I just can’t decide if it’s worth the cost. 

I have students and colleagues who swear by the iPad Pro, but at what it’ll cost me, it almost seems like it’d be better to save up a little longer and get a MacBook again. The iPad Mini seems attractive though for its smaller size but good specs. The plain iPad would be the budget choice of course, but I don’t know if it would be sufficient. 

What do you all think? Do you use tablets on the day to day in grad school/academia?

Edit: I’m a literature PhD student for what that’s worth 

TL;DR - I’m considering getting a tablet to use in conjunction with my ungainly (but functional) laptop for grad school and can’t decide if it’s worth the cost.

Edit 2: Thank you all SO MUCH for the great advice! This is exactly what I needed - the perspective of fellow grad students 😊",90,90,31.21641839951001,GradSchool
Does SOP and LORs go through plagiarism detectors?,"I have contacted my professors for LORs, they said that I mail them a rough draft and then they'll add and modify some things to it, So I thought of using some templates that are available on the internet . I am afraid it might be viewed as plagiarism and get my application rejected. what are your thoughts on this?",4,0,30.225804973584083,GradSchool
Would a FIN (f incomplete) grade affect the chance of going to a grand school?,"I got q FIN in one class which I am retake it. I know if I get an A, the FIN will disappear from my gpa but it will stay in my transcript.
Do I have a chance of going to a grad school?",4,0,30.375885992102603,GradSchool
Research lately has been a tedius drag. I'm bored and have no discipline. Help.,"**TLDR:  for the past couple weeks I’ve hardly touched my research paper that’s “nearly finished”. Research has become a laundry list of stuff my advisor tells me to fix (no science) and it’s making me kind of depressed, plus I have no self-control. So all in all, i now find this project boring as shit and I wanna know how I can power through and finish something I kind of hate.**



i’m going into my second year of a PhD program. Still a bunch of classes to do this year, but I've been doing a lot of research too. I’ve beeen working on my current project for about a year in graduate school and then a few months during my undergrad while I was doing an internship.

It was a somewhat interesting project at first, but really I chose it beause my advisor said I would have a better chance of publishing sooner (she basically promised we’d get it done in my first year). Last Fall my advisor said we would be finished and submitting for publication by January, in January she said by Spring. In Spring she said we would at least be able to send something to the co-authors by September. Now we really are getting close (at least that’s what she says). The paper is at least filled out thoroughly. 
My project has just gotten to the point where the science is over and I'm just adding meat to the writing and fixing small errors. I just have a laundry list of shit she tellls me to fix every week and it’s so uninspiring and SO BORING. It’s making me a little depressed. 
 

It’s just annoying. I haven’t been able to force myself to do it and she’s always absent so no one else is forcing me to do it either.
i feel like we could be done if she paid a little more attention to me and our project… but she’s so fucking busy with traveling, her senior grad students, and more interesting projects that I think I’m kind of her last priority rn. I just feel like she doesn’t care anymore and when I first started I felt like she did. 

I'm not saying it's her fault because I know in the end if I just had more discipline and powered through that I could do more... I could nag her and push her to help me and we could have gotten done already maybe…. but I don’t have the motivation or discipline to do that I guess. I just feel stuck and bored. How do I push myself to just finish this?",5,7,30.826892936547043,GradSchool
Follow up on iPad question...,"I saw u/xocorros ‘s post about iPad viability in grad school. It seems like the general consensus was that an iPad (or other brand) works perfectly for note taking and reading, but I didn’t see anything about writing, hence my question:

Apple or otherwise, would it be worth it to buy a tablet for WRITING  papers?

I’m not familiar with a mobile version of Word, but am willing to learn if it’s worth it in other areas (weight, portability, battery life, etc.). Lots of my writing consists of lit reviews, so I’m hesitant to buy a tablet if it’ll be difficult to work on.

Thanks!",10,5,30.768223955065565,GradSchool
"Suggestions for business schools in Canada, US and Europe offering degrees in media management","Hi, I want a business degree in media management so that I can work for TV industries, production houses and such and such. What are some b schools you would recommend in Canada, US and Europe that offer the program or something similar at the very least? Thank you for your help!",1,0,30.688061918028527,GradSchool
Is it too late & how poorly does my academic background reflect on me?,"In short, I have academic backgrounds in biotechnology, ecology, and now i'm doing my MSc in biomedicine - they are all separate degrees. I did ecology because I love nature and I've always wanted to dip my toe in that field, ultimately I went back to biomedicine because I thought a life in ecology would be too confusing as it's *so new* and job prospects are not as widely available (and lucrative?). Now I'm halfway through my Master's but I find myself missing ecology and wondering if I made the wrong decision because I do value conservation work and I'm not sure what to do - quit? Start over in another MSc? How will my CV look like to future employers - will they think I'm wishy-washy and am a confused youth (which I totally am)? It's a significant portion of my existential crises. 

Anyone here ever had such dilemmas and what did you do?",5,5,31.02207812173223,GradSchool
"Have you watched a spouse go through a PhD program and thought, sadistically, ""Yeah, I should do that, too?""","My spouse finished a PhD program, and I was there with her for most of it. She's amazing and killed it, but I did see her go through a lot to come out the other side. I am beginning to think about a change of career pace, myself, in the next few years. I'm just curious if anyone has been married to a PhD and gone back to get theirs, and how that experience was for you?  
  
EDIT: Of course, I should have used ""masochistically,"" not, ""sadistically."" While it was an adventure for both of us in the process, I wasn't intending to ask if I should give my spouse any ""payback"" for it! Ha! Thank you all for your responses and feedback!",26,159,32.01599015876927,GradSchool
The Postdoctoral Experience: Not Always What You Expect,"💖

**The Postdoctoral Experience: Not Always What You Expect**

[https://www.sciencemag.org/features/2008/08/postdoc-experience-not-always-what-you-expect](https://www.sciencemag.org/features/2008/08/postdoc-experience-not-always-what-you-expect)

**Education-Training-Experience-Knowledge-Skills-Attributes**

[http://jorgecham.com/](http://jorgecham.com/)

[https://www.flickr.com/photos/bendeverman/albums/72157628106845655](https://www.flickr.com/photos/bendeverman/albums/72157628106845655)

[https://www.flickr.com/photos/bendeverman/albums/72157627568602817/](https://www.flickr.com/photos/bendeverman/albums/72157627568602817/)",0,0,30.706441547658155,GradSchool
Project Management Recommendations?,"I’m going to be coordinating a single-site multi-team research project in the next few months, and I was wondering if y’all have any recommendations for project management software and tools. I’m familiar with the classics (Trello, Google Drive), but any other free/very low cost software recommendations would be amazing. Thanks in advance!",7,2,31.12654571432482,GradSchool
question regarding initial application to grad school.,"Hi, I'm interested in pursuing an MS degree in Forensic Anthropology for either 2020 Fall or 2021 Spring. It all depends on whether I can get the cover letters. From what I've read online I have to essentially go meet professors I want to work under in person since they are more likely to accept you. I still haven't emailed anyone, but I have 6 different ones from 3 different Universities. I'm really confused about what I should ask them during the interview besides asking if they are taking any graduate students and what my research interest are. Can anyone shed some light into what I should ask or say during this face to face meet cause I'm beyond lost atm.",4,1,31.05440451062112,GradSchool
Advice on module choice for my MA in IR,"Hello, Im to be studying my Masters in International Relations at the University of Nottingham this month and I will have to choose my modules in 2-3 weeks, after my initial induction week. While I already know what interests me, I was wondering if I could get some advice on whether there are some modules that would be meaningfully better in terms of employment or use than others.

Thanks a lot

I have heard that trying to specialise into a region or hot-button issue like sustainnable development is a solid plan, is this the case?

The full list of modules is here, the modules I am interested in are in bold font:

**China and the World**

^(Comparative Democratic Development)

**Contemporary Warfare**

**Democracy and Elites in 20th Century Europe and America**

^(Disasters, Rehabilitation and Resilience)

**EU-China: Trade, Aid and Public Diplomacy in the 21st Century**

^(Gender and Development)

^(Global Asia)

**Government and Politics of China**

**Institutions, Governance and International Development**

**International Political Economy**

^(Justice Beyond Borders: Theories of International and Intergenerational Justice)

^(The Politics of South Asia)

**Russia in the World Today**

**Secret Intelligence and International Security**

^(Special Project A)

^(Special Project B)

**Terrorism and Insurgencies  -(possibly)**

**The Theory and Practice of Diplomacy**

**War, Peace and Terror  -(possibly)**

**When Does Russia Expand and Why?**",0,2,31.2211984921026,GradSchool
Need help deciding between two school; UNE and St. Thomas university in Florida,"Hello gradschool,

My wife has been accepted to both The University of New England’s and St. Thomas University’s online doctorate programs in educational leadership. She is looking for any advice or warning before making a final decision. 

Would either of these universities’ degrees be more beneficial to specific career paths?

We appreciate and advice you all have. 

Thank you",2,0,31.093686918028524,GradSchool
Anyone have a MS degree? Need some help,I have a class assignment to interview two people with master's of science degrees about the advantages and disadvantages of a specific field where they are currently employed. Everyone who I've contacted hasn't gotten back to me and the assignment deadline is coming up. If you can give me a personal intro and just a few sentences that would be great!,6,0,31.17321238099149,GradSchool
PhD students who experienced depression in their first year-- when did it start for you?,"With the alarming stats that >50% of PhD students experience depression and/or other mental health problems, and as a (now former) grad student who experienced depression my first year, I was wondering when/why/and how these feelings began for other grad students. If you could provide your field of study, about what month you started experiencing symptoms, and any precipitating events. This isn't for any formal purpose except general curiosity and interest.

For me, my field was biology and I started getting depressed towards the end of October in my first year, after the first round of exams were done and I hadn't scored as high as I hoped in one class. It's also when the supreme loneliness of being in a new place started to set it, and I had no one to turn to for support.",35,22,31.91255265876927,GradSchool
Don't Ignore Your Health-A Cautionary Success Story,"I just wanted to share something useful with everyone here that basically has saved my sanity, and my life.

DO NOT IGNORE YOUR HEALTH

I am a stubborn person who tends to power through situations and not reach out. This is one of the worst habits to have in grad school.

Seriously. If you have access to insurance through your program, utilize it. See a primary care doctor, take preventative steps and monitor yourself. Don't be afraid to seek out counseling or psychiatric services either. Let me tell you what happened with me.

This last year has been excruciating and painful. Year 2 of a PhD after going straight from 4 years of undergrad and 2 years of a masters. Mental health and stress at the extremes and work productivity has suffered immensely. I saw the primary care doctor and I was walking around with near stroke level high blood pressure. So we got that taken care of. Also did blood work to rule out any other issues like diabetes, low hormones, etc. Thankfully, no other issues appeared.

I saw a psychiatrist and got started on meds which helped stabilize preexisting mental health conditions, depression and anxiety. Started seeing a counselor to help talk through the issues.

Lastly, just pay attention to your body. Despite all this, I still felt tired and burnt out all the time. I'd wake up tired and I finally asked about sleep issues. Turns out, I do have sleep apnea which can exacerbate mental health problems, high blood pressure and still leave you tired all the time.

Should be getting CPAP next week and having closure that there was a physiological component to my shitty time in grad school felt liberating. I would never have guessed I had apnea, probably had it for years. If I hadn't been into the doctors, I don't think I would make it another 4 years to graduation.

So don't ignore your health and take full advantage of services offered to you. 

tl:dr I was too stubborn to see a doctor for over a year and I had treatable conditions that would have made school so much more tolerable.",26,155,32.355098955065564,GradSchool
"Should I put my master's degree on my resume as ""in progress""?","I haven't enrolled in any classes yet, but I've already accepted the offer and was assigned an adviser. It's a part time graduate program  (I'm required to take one class a year to stay enrolled), so I want to work full time while I complete it. Problem is, I'm having trouble landing a career with just my BS degree. 

Also, when should I start applying to jobs that require an MS in order to be considered? Thank you guys for insight!",9,1,31.240585066176674,GradSchool
Why on every single conference/data-club/meeting there's always that person who goes WAY overtime,"This is mostly a silly rant as there are many things in gradschool that are worse than someone going overtime on their talk, but the frequency that it happens is just absurd to me. Have people no self-awareness? Once it becomes clear that they are overtime for more than a couple of minutes some people in the audience or the organizers start looking uncomfortable/annoyed, how is that something the presenter doesn't notice? I don't think I've ever been to a talk that this didn't happen at least once, and in all levels of seniority too (if anything, grad students tend to adhere to time policies better).

What gives?",9,18,32.00137210321371,GradSchool
Maybe the Impostor Syndrome has been lying....,"Based off what I see on this sub, it seems a many grad students, myself included, at some point in time feel we aren't as capable as others in our situation or that we have to live up to impossible standards. Recently my GA supervisor has trusted me to take on more important responsiblities that I didn't think I would be able to complete, but I did and she was very pleased with the work I turned in. My supervisor has been known to be very particular and perfectionist in the work she expects. It is a nice boost the know that my work is good enough on its own merits. Just wanted to share. Wishing you all find something that helps reaffirm that your doing better than you think, because you probably are.",1,16,32.31413830691742,GradSchool
Research needed to get UCB/Cornell M.Eng in CS?,"There are two M.Eng in Computer Science programs I am looking at: Cornell and UC Berkeley. They are both 1 year long and course based instead of research.

Since they do not involve research in the degree, can I assume that I can get into these programs without undergraduate research?

For example, If I graduate with a 3.9 GPA from a state school and at 330 GRE score and have Industry experience at top companies (Google, Facebook, Airbnb, etc) , will that all be enough to get admitted into a program like this? Or would research still be required? 

Also anybody have opinions on if these programs are respected or just considered “cash cows”?

Thanks",3,0,31.688802658769266,GradSchool
Overwhelmed First Year Grad Student,"Hi! I am in my first year of grad school part time while also working part time hours although my job is some-what demanding. I have always wanted to get my Masters degree and now that I am finally in the program, it's like I can't wrap my head around it. I've done full time school while working part time and breezed through that but now it's different. I think it's because I want this so badly and I don't want to mess it up that it's causing me to stress? is this normal? I am preceding with my usual routine and life -- more exercising though -- but I'm overwhelmed. Also, I feel less competent than my peers who seem to fit in just fine after hearing their opinions during discussion. help please!",3,2,31.854994788398894,GradSchool
System to organize multiple projects?,"Hey what do y'all use to organize all the projects you've got going? I'm analog and usually like a big whiteboard with lists and deadlines, and a color-coded calendar, but am looking for something new as I have too many things going for that. Is there a software program, or other easier analog system you love and would like to recommend? I have my phone calendar and a million to-do lists, but surely there's an easier, more efficient way out there somewhere.",11,3,32.09399941802853,GradSchool
Elsevier is investigating hundreds of peer reviewers who might be manipulating citations by inappropriately using the review process to promote their own work.,,30,251,33.027228584695195,GradSchool
Carrying the financial load,So my partner has been laid off of work for 6 months. And before that he was only employed for 5 months and was laid off for 6 months prior to that. I'm now a 3rd year phd student and carrying the financial burden. The stress is taking its toll on me but also he's feeling really low and bad about himself from either hearing nothing or getting an interview but then not getting the job. How do I help him feel better but also just get a damn job so we can be in a better financial situation to start a family?,6,0,31.784126732843344,GradSchool
How do we ask good questions in the scientific field?,"So like everyone working on their masters or PhD we're expected to read scientific papers, peer-reviewed etc. I read the abstract, then the results/discussion, then skim through the methods and I cannot for the life of me think of any questions to ask. I just absorb what I read like it's fact, I don't know if it's because this is my first semester but you can see my professor's excited face drop when I ask a question regarding the article. Like I cannot think of any questions to ask besides ones that I know are stupid like ""do you think heat could have affected the results?"" Like probably who cares right? It's in-vitro for a reason. So any thoughts?

Tldr: Does anyone have any good advice for formulating questions? I've tried writing down previous questions from my lab mates ask but... Idk...",4,7,32.31457812173223,GradSchool
Letter of Rec from a post-doc a good idea?,"So I joined up with a few PhDs to form an independent working group. We are waiting to hear back on funding at the moment. If we are successful, would a letter of rec from the PI (recent PhD, current post-doc) be a better idea than faculty?

I graduated back in December '17. I have one letter from a professor that I TA'd for/got two A's from (area of focus isn't super relevant for the programs), a professor I did summer research with (relevant), and a professor I did undergrad research with/got one A from (relevant). I'm thinking about changing out the TA prof for this more recent research one. Good idea?

My GPA/GRE are high. The programs are complexity & computer science. There is another post on here asking the same question, but their PI (faculty) could sign-off on the post-doc's letter which isn't possible in my situation.",3,0,31.894439232843343,GradSchool
Is it in poor taste to contact admissions board members for graduate programs I am applying to?,"Like many graduating seniors, I have a dream graduate school I would love to attend, and I want to make myself stand out as much as possible. I found a contact for someone I know is on the graduate admissions for the program I am applying to. Would it be in bad taste to contact that person, telling them I am interested in applying, and asking for advice for admission and/or program? Something along the lines of better understanding how they choose the applicants, and things I should note to portray on my application.

I would stay away from any question that has an easy-to-find answer. I do not know how a message like this would be perceived, or if I would actually stand out at all from doing this, or if I should ask them different types of questions.

I do have advisors I would love to work with, and will be contacting them soon to ask about their lab and the program as well.

&#x200B;

edit: fixed clarity",3,3,32.15110589951001,GradSchool
Personal Statement formatted incorrectly on submitted grad application,"So I submitted one of my applications today and the school had their own portal to submit it. They also had no way to attach a document for the personal statement and instead you cut/paste in their designated section or manually type it out. I had my essay in a Word document and decided to cut and paste and spent a good 20 minutes making sure it formatted correctly. I save and review the application including the statement section again and everything looked good. I submit it and review it (unable to make changes now) and the essay didn’t format correctly! So now instead of clear paragraph it’s structured with multiple one or two word sentences

‘Like

This’

I’m so upset and unfortunately submitting it today and after 5 means the admissions office is closed. Should I even bother contacting the admissions team to see if it can be fixed or is it a non issue? Keep in mind this format is majority the statement.",4,1,31.96580497358408,GradSchool
Hard to get undergraduate research experience in the field I'm interested in?,"Sorry if this is not the right sub, but it also doesn't really fit /r/gradadmissions either so idk where to put it. I'm a CS undergrad (3rd year) and I want to do research in computer graphics, specifically rendering. I have one internship that is tangentially related (but I know industry work doesn't mean anything for grad school) and I asked a few profs who are graphics researchers at my university if they had undergrad positions available and they all said they do but there were way more people interested than total spots, and since I have no previous research experience and haven't even taken the graphics course yet (it's a 4th year course), I never end up getting selected. I feel anxious waiting until next year to try again because I would only get one shot to do something meaningful like publish a paper whereas if I do research starting in 3rd year, I have a lot more time to experiment and get decent at it in preparation for grad school. What should I do in this position?",9,2,32.12397626988038,GradSchool
Tips for the first contact via e-mail with a potential advisor I've been looking up online,,2,1,32.01397626988038,GradSchool
"Graduating with MBA, not from a top school.","I just wanted to hear from some individuals that did not graduate from a top ranking school. Realistically, i know everyone isn’t going to be employed by the big three nor wants to be.
If you have a moment, could you answer a few questions for me ?

1. Did you program properly prepare you for work after graduation ?
1. How long did it take you land a job ?
2. What type of work did you end up doing ?
3. Did you reach a comfortable income ?
4. What are are you in? (City, state)
5. Do you feel like not graduating from a top school has hindered your success ?",4,1,32.049277195806305,GradSchool
Impostor Syndrome - PhD programs without a Master's,"I am in one of the programs where you can apply and get in without a Master's and get it along the way. It fostered a ""I'm a PhD student but not really"" mentality for me.

Well, apparently I now  could theoretically apply for my Master's, making me more of a ""real"" PhD student. It's...kinda terrifying? I know impostor syndrome is big and I both feel and see it, but there's a difference between knowing you might get something someday and ""oh shit I could get this NOW""",4,2,32.33259895506556,GradSchool
Did you ever realize you just aren’t cut out for grad school?,"I’ve started my program, which is an intensive 1 year molecular bio program, and I’m feeling like I can’t keep up with everyone else. Is there a point where you have to realize it isn’t imposter syndrome and it’s just that you weren’t supposed to be here? Like your dreams are higher than your capabilities will ever be?",37,54,33.087969325435935,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Mentor a labmate?

* Learn some APIs?

* Enjoy a lazy week?

* Buy a laptop?

* Receive cool seeds?

* Apply for an internship?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",24,1,32.24943923284334,GradSchool
Suggestions for Ph.D. Programs with Heavy Biotech Industry Collaboration?,"Hello r/GradSchool,
I’m asking for some advice on programs to look into. I’m based in the US and looking for Ph.D. programs that collaborate heavily with the biotech industry. I have heard of doing internships with companies in the middle of a Ph.D., but I was wondering if there were any programs or schools where that is clearly a route to take. I know that there are big areas in Seattle or RTP in North Carolina, but any other suggestions? Or programs that would cater to this?

I can worry about admissions later (I will already have a M.S. in Chemical Engineering and a great GPA/some research output), but looking for other programs. Any advice or comments would be greatly appreciated. Thanks all!",1,1,32.26016839951001,GradSchool
"Told myself I wasn’t gonna drink this weekend, today grad school told me different","Cheers to the second self-doubt induced break down, three weeks into the semester!!🍻",3,12,32.857934603213714,GradSchool
Social anxiety in grad school is making me really depressed and lonely,"I have just started my second (and final) year of my MSc program. Overall I love it. I have heard horror stories about people hating their department / advisor / lab / other students and it just being a very difficult environment. My experience is the exact opposite. The department is VERY accommodating. My advisor (and nearly all profs in the department) are amazing. Incredibly supportive environment. I love it and am very happy I chose to go here.

However, I have social anxiety. It's worse around people who are relatively outgoing, which is actually a lot of students. I made a couple of good acquaintances in one of my classes last year, but since we don't have class anymore I don't see them very often. We have an office and they don't come into the office very much either. 

I get my work done and am actually kind of ahead. It's stressful but not as stressful as I thought it would be (knock on wood lol). But I just can't bring myself to attend social events. And when someone says ""hi"" to me, I hesitate a bit thinking ""are they saying hi to me? Did they actually just say hi or am I imagining it?""

What I'm struggling with the most is that me and a few students (plus a couple of profs) are attending a destination conference. It's not too far away but we are still taking a plane there, staying in a hotel etc. My advisor says they like to make grad students share rooms since it's cheaper for the department. I'm obviously fine with this. So my advisor emailed one of the other students whose in the same year as me (she started the program with me) asking if she would like to share a room with me. This student has a desk a few down from me actually. I have her on social media and stuff too but am not close with her or anything. She said that she already made travel arrangements and she's staying in a room with one of the PhD students going. That's fine, I don't care and prefer a room to myself. BUT, I am just afraid I will be so alone even on this trip. Talking to nearly anyone is so hard for me. Fortunately I have a VERY supportive boyfriend whom I live with who is very comforting. But still, I just feel alone in everything here due to my social anxiety. 

I think I just needed to vent, but also anyone else experience this? How did you get through it?",13,28,33.07805034395445,GradSchool
Where do you find cool PowerPoint templates?,I'm giving a talk at a really large conference in a few weeks and I want to have a cool PowerPoint template that isn't one of the pre-loaded themes on PowerPoint. One of my presentation pet peeves is a boring template so I'd love to hear your resources for cool talk templates. Cheers!,55,53,33.31417302913964,GradSchool
How do you do scientific illustrations?,"I'm a PhD student and I would say my biggest roadblock is making good scientific illustrations. I wanted to know how other people in grad school deal with this? Are you very proficient at Photoshop/Illustrator? Do you use a third-party and pay them? Or do you have support from your school? 

I try my best on Photoshop and Illustrator but it takes me a long time and it doesn't look as good as some of the ones I see in Nature and Science.",16,15,33.09078182543593,GradSchool
Tips for success in a foreign Master's program?,"Starting my master's degree next week in a different country. Those of you who were once in the same position, how did you deal with the challenges of being in a new environment (physically and academically)? Appreciate any stories or tips.",8,1,32.51173089951001,GradSchool
Imposter Syndrome,This is my second week of classes for my first year in my doctorate and I feel like an imposter. I don’t feel like I belong at all. I feel that my cohort has there shit together far better than me especially in discussion. The last two classes I just freezed or I say something incoherent. I feel that my assignment was below par compared to others. I don’t know if the anxiety or just that I really don’t belong. The only moment when I don’t feel like an imposter is when I have met with my advisor or in clinic team. When I’m in my classes...I just  feel like an idiot who has no idea what I’m doing and make fool of myself in classes... every-time I talk I just repeat what I say or have no semblance of sense. I feel like my cohort knows I don’t belong....,7,6,32.98560821432482,GradSchool
Another “Leaving Academia” post,"I just completed my MSc in neuroscience & genetics. I was originally considering continuing to a PHD, but I’m now entirely convinced that I need to get the fuck out and get a job in the real world. I still love science, but all my enthusiasm for research is gone. This programme has left me a jaded, depressed, anxious, and cynical version of myself. Doing it for another 4yrs is not worth it. The funny thing is, I did quite “well” in my programme, but I have absolutely 0 sense of achievement from it.

The lab has been easily the worst working environment I’ve ever experienced.  If it was a normal job, I would’ve walked out 3 weeks in. We shouldn’t have to put up with this just because “this is how academia is”.  I thought maybe I was unique in how much I hated it, but seeing all the posts about how “toxic” their lab environment is, I’m now convinced that we just stick around due to sheer inertia.

We don’t have to stick around. The only way the culture changes is if graduate students make it clear that this is not acceptable.",37,111,33.70786515876927,GradSchool
Everyone who Is A Student MUST Read This [A Taught Provoking Short Story],,0,0,32.33002951062112,GradSchool
Trouble explaining why grad school is difficult to friends and family,"So, I'm in my second year and I'm considering completely changing my dissertation project. I've been really stressed balancing a full course load, applying for the GRFP, and trying to reformat my project in a coherent enough way that I can pitch it to my advisor.

Explaining this to family, but ESPECIALLY friends, has been really draining. My friends in particular seem to think that my problems are like theirs were in undergrad. So usually more problems submitting paper work, or turning in assignments or exams. Trying to explain that I'm just exhausted from thinking and having a million spinning plates at once is almost too draining in its self. Or that I'm not just doing what professors tell me to do, but I'm trying to make a research project from scratch. They just.....don't seem to even be able to grasp the idea that that's what I'm doing in ""school"".

I feel like it's important to note that I come from a non-academic background. I'm the first person in my family to get any advanced degree outside of an undegraduate degree. Most of the people in my program come from families of academics. I wish I could get the deeper level of support and understanding from my family and friends that my peers seem to get.",5,4,33.05931191802853,GradSchool
PhD Viva in 9 hours. Can't sleep. Panic.,"After 4 years I'm having my PhD viva in 9 hours and I am massively panicking for the last 2 weeks. 


Yes I have printed my thesis and read it. I've made a 20 minute presentation. But I'm not the brightest tool in the shed and I'm panicking about questions, examiners thoughts and feedback. Having an awful imposters syndrome (I really don't feel like I deserve a PhD).


Really not looking forward to it. Hope I can stop crying by the time my viva starts.

EDIT: ya girl's a doctor. Not gonna lie. It's a mildly unpleasant experience. But at some point... I almost forgot it's an exam. Just a long discussion.

EDIT 2: thanks for some of the feedback and comments during my sleepless night before.",51,166,33.81377951062112,GradSchool
Articles to help friends and family be more supportive?,"Does anyone have any articles I can share with my friends and family about how to understand what I am going through as I write up my thesis? I am in the last 1.5 months before I defend and my roommates are trying to throw parties, my husband is pissed at me for telling them I don't want parties at the house right now, and like my friends keep trying to make plans with me. My husband also keeps giving me a hard time for not going to family events and not socializing. I need to write and they just don't understand this. I need to focus god damnit.",3,2,32.95239062173223,GradSchool
Grad student culture is _____,"Fill in the blank with something humorous and/or real. For example:
-Grad student culture is not knowing where the hangover ends and the caffeine withdrawal begins.
-Grad student culture is buying a new eye cream with a color corrector so your dark circles don't show up as much.",20,11,33.245920714324825,GradSchool
How common is it for grad students to live with their parents?,"I live with my mother - in fact, she moved from Oregon to move into my apartment - and we split living cost pretty much 40/60. We pay rent and utility half-half, while she pays more for grocery because she is a full time employee that makes more money while I am on stipend that overall pays less. 

  
I am just curious, how common is it for grad students to move back in(or opposite case like me), and do you contribute to your family finance?",10,3,32.888177658769266,GradSchool
I will not be pursuing jobs in my field. Advice needed.,"I am starting my fourth year in a biological field PhD. I’ve passed my quals, I am a PhD candidate! However, and I knew this before even getting my bachelors, I am very interested in creative writing. During my time in grad school, that interest became a burgeoning skill in TV writing. TV writing and a PhD in biology have overlap pretty much nowhere. I’m at a point where there are some people I know who could help me get my first jobs in TV. However, because I am a 4th year, I am essentially in the middle of a fruitful project. I don’t really know what to do right now. My advisor knows I am no longer interested in academia, but figured I’ll do industry or something at least related. I don’t even know how or when to bring this up to her. I really like my advisor, she is a very nice person. I also do kind of want the PhD, but I also want to get my actual life going. Advise please, especially if you did a PhD and then your next job was in another field.",13,11,33.283200806917414,GradSchool
Best way to go about building a new body of literature?,My fieldwork (archaeology) location has changed quite suddenly due to a breakdown in relationship with first community. Need to build a new base of literature before end of November. Any tips?,1,1,32.75730960321371,GradSchool
Staying social in grad school?,What are your best recommendations for staying social in grad school and not totally alone?,8,1,32.82387210321371,GradSchool
Caffeine fix... help,"This is kind of a random post, but I just started my PhD a few weeks ago and I have already found myself consuming a lot more caffeine than I normally do. I stayed away from caffeine for the most of my undergrad and masters since it seemed to give me anxiety. However, now I find myself NEEDING caffeine to stay awake long enough to get through my readings/assignments each week. I can't drink coffee because it makes me panic, but oddly enough I can drink ""bang"" energy drinks without getting absurd anxiety. (this is a legit problem for me) 

I was wondering what other grad students drink (other than coffee) to keep them awake? Any drinks with natural caffeine? 

&#x200B;

Any good alternatives to ""bang"" energy drinks or the celsius energy drinks? 

&#x200B;

any suggestions would be wonderful!!",5,2,33.000955436547045,GradSchool
Reporting plagiarism in an already published article?,"I'm currently working on a manuscript and was doing some background reading to better explain the underlying process. I found a paper which also used the same process. Decent explanation, I then went and examined some of their linked references. 

Large portions of their work are word-for-word the same as their references. Even the brackets around the same words within the sentence. I've only looked at the introduction so far as they were working on a different problem them me. 

The field is analytical chemistry, and it's published in one of the upper tier journals in the field. My PI is currently off to a conference so I'm not able to ask what to do.

Advice?",7,9,33.401406825435934,GradSchool
Having trouble adapting to my grad school field. Any tips for learning a mostly new subject?,"Hello!

I recently started a masters degree in evolutionary biology. My issue comes from the fact that I had previously been very entrenched in ecology as a field of focus. I understand that I am still pretty early on in my degree (only 3 weeks), and that the fields have a decent amount of bleed over, but I am really struggling with some of the basic aspects of the field.

Im no stranger to scientific papers or writing or the like, but I seriously had to spend 45 minutes on 3 paragraphs in the intro of a paper for a seminar course. And even then, I feel like I took a different understanding of the hypotheses presented in the paper. This feels so different than I am used to. I can read more advanced Ecology papers and feel like I have a solid understanding of the concepts presented within. But with most of the evolution focused papers it really takes me quite a while to understand the concepts presented.

I want to be able to navigate the field better and gain a more solid understanding of the concepts. How can I go about learning this field most effectively? I have a general idea for a project, but I feel that I know so little that I have a hard time coming up with a direction. I guess I'm not even sure what's possible? Should I be trying to understand all the basics and build up that way, or continue down a single path within the field and learn everything I can about that?

Self-study is how ive always operated, but throwing myself into a completely different field of focus has been more jarring than I anticipated. Id love some advice from more seasoned students such as yourself!",2,1,32.903987843954454,GradSchool
How do you write a letter of recommendation from a supervisor you've barely worked with?,"I'm currently applying for a fellowship that requires letter of recommendation from the intended supervisor of the PhD thesis. However, this fellowship is for students that haven't started their PhD and in theory haven't worked with their PI. I'm wondering how one might go about writing a letter of rec like that.

Edit: Some additional information thanks to u/abb84 
I already have an advisor with a topic in mind already. I don't believe I'm able to change the scope of my topic once I've received the fellowship considering the PhD is in the UK (no rotations etc.). 
I've spoken to my advisor regarding this, and he told me to craft one myself and he'll sign off on it, thus my dilemma.",3,2,33.06761052913964,GradSchool
Graduate Nursing Student to Clinical v Counseling Psychology PhD Looking for a Path,"Hi everyone,

I'm currently a grad student in a Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner program. The further I go into my program the more I become interested in potentially doing a PhD in Clinical or Counseling Psychology after finishing my Masters. Does anyone have any tips for how I can make myself competitive as a nontraditional applicant?

I've taken/taking the following courses:

* Intro to Psych (undergrad - psych)
* Developmental Psych (undergrad - psych)
* Psychiatric Nursing (undergrad - nursing)
* Psychopharmacology (grad - nursing)
* Psychobiology (grad - nursing)
* Individual therapy (grad - nursing)
* Group therapy (grad - nursing)
* Clinical/Practicum (undergrad/grad - nursing)

Are there any other courses that I should take?

In the mean time I'm trying to find a RA position in my university. Would psychiatric nursing research translate well to a Clinical or Counseling PhD application? Has anyone taken a similar path?

Thank you!",0,2,33.1103072883989,GradSchool
Small anxiety attacks while in grad school,"I keep having these random bouts of fight or flight while I’m in my classes, before class starts, driving to school... I feel tingly and paranoid over nothing specific. All I know is I feel like I want to run away.... has anyone dealt with this before?? Please help...",7,1,33.00267997358409,GradSchool
Has anyone ever flipped into a PhD from a MSc?,"So - I was accepted to an MSc program starting this fall that is three years long, one year of courses, one year of thesis and one year of an internship in the health care field that is highly competitive. 

When I met my supervisor I was awestruck, I had followed her career for several years and was so honoured that she would want me in her lab that I think I overlooked the general process of making sure the program was the right fit for me. 

I started classes this week and I'm disappointed because the field is supposed to be scientific, but there are no science courses to be found. I'm bored out of my mind, the classes suck and are not on topics I would ever be interested in if they were not required. My thesis project is also not on a topic I am hugely passionate about because my supervisor had a topic ready to go as part of a larger study when I'd contacted her (I agreed because yeah, awestruck). I'm not 100% sure I even want the internship because umm.. research grabbed my heart. 

There is a professor and researcher I've been working with at a different (more graduate focussed) university who is super cool and who I've had this conversation with. He taught me a course in which I had to design a study protocol as the final project. He recently told me that if I wanted to flip into a PhD program and carry out the study I actually designed myself, he would arrange it. 

So - if I flip I get a PhD, might be happier, do my own research that I'm passionate about, not be bored. If I don't, I lose my internship, might lose a 20k scholarship I received to do the MSc, and probably burn a bridge with this supervisor that I love. 

I want to know what you all think - would I drown by flipping? Would I hate myself for not getting the professional designation I've worked so hard for? Would my current supervisor hate me? Should I just take my time and finish my MSc - people keep telling me its a necessary evil, and other prof said he would also arrange after masters if I wanted? HELP.

tl;dr I don't know whether to flip to a PhD and lose my internship or finish my boring MSc first. Looking for advice/experiences!",3,5,33.32993691802853,GradSchool
Undergrad Distracted by Grad School Apps,"Hey everyone, senior in my undergrad that's applying to grad schools for next fall. I'm finding myself so distracted by doing anything related to grad schools before anything class-related. There's not much to do right now. I've got my recommendations in order, created most of my applications, and my programs are either rolling or don't have deadlines until around February.  


I think it's my form of ""senior-itis,"" but I'm curious if anyone else has/had similar feelings.",3,2,33.24810821432482,GradSchool
Can you qualify for SSHRC or CIHR writing a Major Research Paper?,"I found a good health policy program. The funding itself is good, but I wanted to know if I qualified for doing non thesis research.",1,0,33.11502951062112,GradSchool
Forgot to change co-author's affiliation on poster,"So I've been thinking about a mistake I've made for the last few hours and felt I should share my mishap and my intended solution. I've reworked an old poster for the last few days and today I brought the file to the copy shop to have it printed. When rolling it together to put it into a poster tube, I compared my poster with those of my colleagues and noticed that I forgot to include the new affiliation of my former office mate and co-author. 

I'm a bit mad at myself that I didn't find such an obvious mistake earlier and I came up with following solution: I'm going to print out the name of my co-author's new affiliation and glue it onto the poster. Probably not the most elegant way, but still better to print out the whole poster anew, since that would be very expensive.

In hindsight I should have asked my colleagues and my advisor for feedback before I started printing. One possible explanation why I didn't, could be that my mental health is kind of in a strange spot right now, where I feel some heightened sense of (social) anxiety and I didn't want to bother anyone to come and have a look at my draft of the poster. I'm planning on asking my friends in grad school tomorrow what they would do, but I'd be too embarrassed to talk to my advisor about it.

I'm not quite sure what response to expect here, but I needed to get my thoughts out of my system and if anyone has more ideas, I'd be happy to hear them.

**TL;DR**: Forgot to change co-author's affiliation on poster, want to print it out and glue it on tomorrow",6,1,33.19114062173223,GradSchool
Advice on Long term Planning,"I graduated with a Masters in American History from a big state school in the South this past spring, and I’m trying to map out my next steps as best as I can. I want to go back for a PhD in 5 years (give or take), and I’ve been applying for jobs in university administration so I can stay close to the action and the resources that a university provides. I’ve looked at grad programs and found one that looks like a good fit with a lot of good scholarship coming out of it. My question is: should I seek employment at that university (or just state) in anticipation of applying there? I realize that the move would mean nothing if I didn’t get accepted, but I feel like the benefit of in-state rates and proximity would balance that out. What do you guys think?",0,0,33.22116376988038,GradSchool
Thinking about getting a Masters Degree in Europe--Does anyone have general advice on where to start?,"I'm 24 y/o from Colorado, USA.  I did my undergrad in Nebraska in Finance/International Business.  I'm looking to go back to school and have been giving grad school in Europe serious thought. I am aiming for the fall of 2020.  

I have a lot of existing student loans from my undergrad and I would love to take advantage of the cheap tuition in Europe compared to dropping another 20k on a degree here in the US.  I was looking specifically at German universities to get a masters in finance or international business.  

I have no idea where to start though, it seems like a gigantic task.  So I'm wondering if anyone has done something similar for their Masters and would have any advice on where I should start/what I should do to get the ball moving. I know there are specific requirements for Visas and the logistics for moving to a different country, but how do I go about applying/coordinating with a school that is thousands of miles away?",5,0,33.22919617728778,GradSchool
"In the absence of close, productive mentoring by a faculty member, how do you become your own mentor?","While I believe it is obviously necessary to have a supportive mentor during a research project, my project seems to be very independent and I've not been able to gather much helpful mentorship from my advisor on my current project. 

What steps can I take to become my own research mentor? I've been trying to read all the relevant papers and keep all the knowledge in my working memory to figure out the next step in my project but this has gone quite poorly. 

Is there some way that I can ""talk myself"" through the higher-level planning steps and effectively become my own research mentor? I have found that I talk to myself most efficiently using a journal so that would be a tool I'd be most comfortable making use of. 

For example, maybe I could simulate what a meeting with a good advisor might go like on the page itself by asking myself the same questions an advisor would. I will note that I am in a doctoral theoretical physics program doing research in AdS/CFT and my main frustration as of right now is with methodology: when there are two choices in how to compute something, which should I choose? How will I know if I am implementing this method correctly?

Any tips would be greatly appreciated!",30,145,34.39123321432482,GradSchool
Admitted suspiciously fast - red flag?,"I""m applying for an online masters degree. I filled out the first part of the application and submitted my resume and undergrad transcripts as I have about 4-5 years of work experience after undergrad and within a week I was told they have enough paperwork from me and will let me know about an admission decision soon. This morning I logged onto the online portal and it says my status is ""Admitted"". 

Is this suspicious? My dad says this is a red flag. I have not submitted GRE scores, essays, or letters of rec and when I asked when they were due they told me that the program and specialization I applied for does not need it.

&#x200B;

the program seems to be accredited and several of the staff there are known by my colleagues who have done PhD's so I'm not sure how to interpret what's going on or how to proceed.

&#x200B;

Any guidance would be super helpful",16,0,33.332228584695194,GradSchool
Environmental Engineering + Econometrics?,"I want to go to graduate school, though I am not completely sure what I would like to do. I studied mathematical finance and computer engineering in undergrad, and am now working at an investment firm. I love my job and everything that I get to do. Eventually I want to own my own firm! I love econometrics, computational finance, mathematical finance, etc but I've been reading some articles and books on environmental engineering. 

My question I guess, is if there are any programs that combine environmental engineering with economics, or econometrics?",22,7,33.78772626988038,GradSchool
Do you enjoy school? Because I don't think I do and I'm worried grad school was a mistake.,"When you do classwork, and the problems are hard and you complete them, does that feel good to you? Not just in a ""oh good, I'm done, I dont have to keep doing this"" kind of way, but with a warm sense of satisfaction?

Do you legitimately look forward to going into work? Not just for reasons of social interaction and fun, but because you like your work?

Do you like your work, not in the sense that you like being good at something, or you like the prestige and encouragement, but because the work itself is legitimately enjoyable?

I don't feel any of these things. I started an MSc in physics this year because the prof I was doing undergrad research encouraged me to pursue it. I thought I was just burnt out and depressed at the end of undergrad, and didnt want to throw away a great opportunity on depressive thinking. 

I've started my masters and I'm struggling with the work. Not because I've forgotten so much of what I've learned, I have, but because the homework and learning process make me feel panicked and trapped. I have crying jags after three hours of working on an assignment because I feel broken by my lack of understanding, and have a stress response ingrained into my thinking about homework. I panic when people ask me questions I dont know the answer to. I feel like if I just pushed that to the side, and cried privately, and worked until I burnt out completely I could pass these courses and do just fine, but I think it would grind me down into even more of a nervous, depressive mess than I already am. I dont enjoy the work. It doesnt really interest me, I just feel like I need to know it.

So other people in STEM grad studies, when you say you enjoy your work, are you lying like I am? Is this just the process? Or do you really get actual enjoyment out of your studies, and I should consider dropping out because I don6t?",9,5,33.805249418028524,GradSchool
Considering applying to Grad School for Fall 2020 but need a bit of convincing and reassuring,"I've enjoyed gaining my bachelor but I admit some classes/lectures along the way made me doubt my enjoyment of History. In some cases, I'm unsure if the theories and frameworks really connect with me beyond the most general way folks are taught history. I don't wish to be a teacher. A part of me would love to work at a museum though I'm sure even a Bachelor could guarantee me that (minus any job of actual responsibility). I guess I'm wondering what a Master's in History can guarantee you in the field of History for employment and etc. Is it worth gaining considering the likelihood of $$$$ in debt? Does it matter the status/ranking of the Grad School or would only your own performances/skillset matter overall?",7,1,33.666719325435935,GradSchool
What was your GRE score and did you get into your Grad school of choice?,"Hi all, I'm a senior graduating this upcoming spring semester and was hoping to gauge the approximate GRE scores that current & past r/GradSchool students have gotten, along with whether or not you successfully got into your graduate school program of choice.

If you would please fill out this short, 3-question survey below, that would be great:
https://forms.gle/NQLrGND7HRH3U29R7

Any discussion is welcome. I'm pretty unsure on what percentile I should be aiming for in order to reasonably expect to get into a few decent grad school programs. If it matters for discussion, I'm planning on pursuing a Master of Science Degree in Biochemistry.",0,1,0.008964656224405324,GradSchool
YC Students - List of all the internships and new grad jobs opening at the Y Combinator backed startups,,0,1,0.02102484140959051,GradSchool
NSF GRFP Personal Statement,In my personal statement I acknowledge the reasons I've decided to go into the field that I am in but I wasn't sure how/if there were ways to integrate my chronic pain disability into it as well (as an example of 1. persistence even in the face of adversity and 2. somewhat of an explanation for my lower gpa) and was wondering if anyone else here had done that and had any advice on how to make it something that really does highlight my strengths rather than a pity/sob story because that isn't what I want but it is something that is fundamental to who I am.,0,2,0.026360489557738658,GradSchool
"""Personal Statement""","hey all, 

currently applying for my MBA overseas in London. one of the requirements is to provide a personal statement. It doesn't specify anything else other than that, not even word count. Kind of vague, but then again it is my first time doing this so it may just be my ignorance. can anyone give me some pointers on where/how to start? What should it be about? Maybe what are some brainstorming techniques you used when doing this?

thanks in advance.",0,2,0.04985585992810903,GradSchool
I can feel myself spiraling into a depressive episode and I don't know what to say to my advisor *trigger warning*,"Some background on me: 

I'm a 3rd year grad student in a chemistry PhD program, and I've had mental issues my whole life. Depression, anxiety, self harm, suicidal thoughts, the whole shebang. In college I was formally diagnosed and got therapy and antidepressants, and things got a lot better. Now I am still on that medication and doing therapy, and things have generally gotten a lot better. 

Lately my mental health has been really bad. I'm anxious and paranoid almost all the time, I've been dissociating again (that's where I feel really light-headed and I briefly forget who I am and what's happening, like I'm outside my body), and it's hard for me to think clearly, my mind is fuzzy. 

My therapist is booked until next month, and I can start anti-anxiety meds but my Dr is booked until December. I can tell I'm starting to spiral, but what I'm really nervous about is what do I tell my advisor? Do I tell him at all? Do I ask for a day off to recover? My first impulse is to carry on as normal, push through and hope things get better soon without me harming myself. He's a nice guy, but very professional. We don't really talk about our personal lives, and I've never mentioned my medical history. For example, I didn't even know he was married to someone in our department until I had been working for him for a while. 

Has anyone been in a similar situation?",2,3,0.06526095252070162,GradSchool
Grad School Anxiety,"Hey everyone. Hopefully this is the right thread to post in. If not please direct me to the right group! Otherwise I'm just going to jump right into my issue.   


I'm currently in my last year of graduate school. So far the experience has been really exciting but incredibly draining all throughout my application process until now. I got into the program I am in now and was really proud of myself. But in terms of my academic ability and more importantly my writing ability I've always felt like it wasn't on the same level as my peers. This probably stems from issues that I had moving from NYC to upstate NY where many of my peers and teachers were white people. I'm a person of color and I don't think that I also communicated in a way that they were use to. In addition, teachers from my childhood years use to make me feel like complete shit when I wrote a paper or submitted any work.   


This semester in particular I've felt at lost. Many of the articles that I am assigned for one class in particular feel inaccessible to me. The language that is used is confusing and for lack of a better word a bit pretentious. It feels like the person writing thinks that using more complex language makes their argument or idea more credible or valid. Due to my own insecurities I've felt incredibly stupid this entire semester because I'm not able to tie in the readings and lectures when I'm writing papers, etc. In fact, I had sort of a breakdown today because of it.  


My professor in that class emailed me back a paper and stated that my use of the readings and application are thin. He felt like the paper was rushed and not well thought out. I won't like reading that truly hurt me and once again made me feel like I shouldn't be in grad school.  


I guess I'm just looking for advice. How would you approach this situation? How can I express to my Professor that that readings aren't accessible to me. That I'm having a hard time following how the papers ad readings tie together. I don't want to be rude to him but I'm angry, hurt, and frustrated. Has anyone else experienced something like this?   


I'd appreciate any and all helpful comments.",3,1,0.08668456363181273,GradSchool
Tips for peer reviewing a review article?,"Hey all,

Just wondering if anyone out there has done this before. I’ve done research articles before and have a decent system, but I’ve never had to peer review a review article before. I’m supposed to meet with my advisor later in the week to discuss, and am wondering what kinds of things I should be looking for",1,1,0.11063132289107198,GradSchool
"Looking to pick up a masters in finance/statistics, what are some schools that I should be looking at?","
I'm currently an accounting major at a state school with a 3.9 GPA in Texas, graduating in May 2020. I'm thinking of changing my major into a more quantitative role. I'm about to take the GMAT soon and send out my transcripts/test scores. What are some of the best MSF grad schools in the U.S that I should be looking at? I have a full time offer with a private equity accounting firm so I'm able to get work experience if needed.

(posted this on /r/FinancialCareers but not many have responded)",1,0,0.19163826733551642,GradSchool
Thinking I'll probably drop out,"I made a horrible mistake. I went with a non-thesis degree when I should have done a thesis. My chances of ever working in research are basically zero at this point. I've tried to switch to a thesis program, but to no avail. If anyone here is looking to apply to grad school, follow my advice: don't slack off when it comes to finding advisors. It's a massive pain, but the alternative is worse.",0,0,0.1942424340021831,GradSchool
Do I need Physics II Lab for Pharmaceutical Science PhD?," Hi there,

I'm looking to apply to Pharmaceutical Science PhD programs around the U.S. in a couple years when I get my Bachelor's. I only have one more semester to get pre-req's in before starting a program, and it's pretty full. I'm taking Physics I and lab this semester, but I'm hoping I could maybe just take Physics II without the lab next semester without it hurting my grad school application. Any advice is appreciated, thanks!",2,0,0.2089878043725535,GradSchool
Tips on getting over perfectionism? It's eating away my time!,"Question is in the title. Just started grad school this September for my Master's! 

I've always been a keener and in my undergrad it was fairly easy to put in the time and get good grades. However, I'm quickly learning grad school is a whole different beast and now I'm easily dumping countless hours into getting even small projects juuuuuuust right. It's driving me crazy and with big term papers due in 6 weeks among lots of smaller assignments I'm getting concerned about my time management.

Any advice on helping a newbie get to the point and decently their manage their time before they lose their marbles and become a hermit for all of November?",2,8,0.2707239154836646,GradSchool
Is it good enough to graduate with a Masters thesis and a 4-pages research?,"Hi there,
Am a masters student in my 3 semester. I have only one paper published so far, I was the secondary author of that paper.
Right now I’m working on my thesis and a short paper to be published in a jornal. Basically, the short paper is a small overview of my thesis. 
So, I want to know, is graduating with these papers in my resume would be enough for me to purse PhD? 
My major is computer networks.",3,3,0.32662669326144234,GradSchool
Mid semester as a grad student feels like...," [https://imgur.com/gallery/sAqmCJN](https://imgur.com/gallery/sAqmCJN) 

 I have a departmental presentation next friday, an ACS presentation this friday, 90 homework assignments to grade, an exam to proctor on thursday, then 90 exams to grade, and my wife's birfday is this weekend. Oh yea, and that research thing for this research degree i started.",1,12,0.38050400807625717,GradSchool
I have so much resentment,"I am set to hand in my thesis next week, and I am an emotional wreck. The last four years of my life absolutely destroyed me, and right now it seems like it just will never end.

I got almost no supervision in these four years. I got a lot of passive-aggressive comments about how much of a failure I am, though. 4 years in this department in which I am ignored at best, treated like an inconvenience at worst. None of my colleagues seem to understand how much harder it is to do a PhD basically on your own. How hard it is on your self-esteem to be in an environment that has no word of encouragement or constrictive feedback for you. 

After these 4 years of being on my own, I spent a couple of weeks prodding my supervisor on his schedule for the last weeks before my submission, so that he would be able to include time to look at my drafts and give me feedback. He says ok sure, he can do it, he has time, it is all ok.

So it is 7 days before my submission day, and he hasn't finished reading even my introduction. It seems like his office is never empty of other students with which he is spending hours and hours talking to. It's not like he is a great supervisor to all of these people either... it just seems like all of those meetings have to happen now.

I don't understand this. Why would he hire someone who he seems convinced that is a failure? Why would he accept the role of supervisor to someone, and then spend 4 years questioning any of this person's attempts at doing research, while providing zero guidance on what path to follow instead?

For 3 years my self confidence dwindled, I became depressed, ruined my long-term relationship, failed to integrate in a foreign country where it is already super hard to integrate. For all this time I felt like an absolute failure, because that's how I was treated. 

Maybe I am not the smartest cookie in the jar, but I did a great job before this. I had way more publications than anyone else here had before starting the PhD. And now I'm not even done yet, and job offers are raining at me. People seem to appreciate me, my ideas and my work, even though I haven't published anything in 3 years. 

I am so so tired. I got out of the office and came home because I just couldn't keep myself from crying. I just want this to be over soon.",28,191,0.4735711377058868,GradSchool
How do you set yourself up to be studious?,"I'm in my second year of graduate school. Despite loving academia and really wanting to make a career out of it. I'm, honestly, not the best student. Highschool was a joke and I really didn't develop good study skills in undergrad. I'm just wondering what y'all do to help you focus and do work/research outside of class. Also, we all got this!",11,11,0.6605734525207017,GradSchool
Offer received without offer letter. How do I proceed?,"Hey guys! so i got accepted into one of my backup schools last week but I haven't received an offer letter. I found out about my acceptance on the applicant portal. 

[https://imgur.com/a/YwdH9su](https://imgur.com/a/YwdH9su)

&#x200B;

How do i find out the terms and conditions of the offer letter and also the last date to accept or reject the offer? I'm asking as I'm yet to hear from my target school and wouldn't want to make any hasty decisions. Is this normal? When I called the graduate admissions office at UoG they told me that I should have gotten my offer by now and that I should expect it soon. It's been a week and I still haven't heard back from them or received anything yet. 

&#x200B;

Please advise on how to proceed.",6,2,0.6839646562244054,GradSchool
NSF GRFP,"Deadlines begin in one week.

Let us gather and pray that the NSF gods will be merciful...

How are everyone’s applications going?",6,8,0.7581891932614424,GradSchool
Didn't do well on my first exam.,"First year PhD student. Got my score back for the first exam we took and I scored below the mean of the class and feel pretty discouraged by it. My next exam is this week and I've been studying hard, but now I feel worried I won't do well due to the grade I received on the first exam. The instructor even emailed me to let me know I am not in passing territory as it is.

I know I can still turn it around and work hard for the remaining exams. Finding out you did bad still sucks though, and has made me wonder if I should be here (imposter syndrome, I know). 

Wish me luck on my next exam, Reddit.",6,5,0.7957702117799609,GradSchool
How to address bad grades for classes outside my major in a personal statement?,"I'm trying to decide whether I should mention why I recieved bad grades in classes outside my major. Tbh I struggled with some of the class material. It wasn't a lack of studying. I take my education seriously. Some of the classes that I didn't do well on gave me anxiety which was a combination of who the professor was and how much material I didn't seem to understand. I never received any help for my anxiety but looking back I wished that I would have sought help. 

I don't want to make up an excuse about my grades but I also don't want the admissions office to question my ability to do well academically. 

Should I address why my GPA was low? I barely had above a 3.0",3,0,0.804531785854035,GradSchool
Labmate continually signing up for presentations and only presenting her undergrad’s data?,"A non traditional grad student who joined our lab a year after me has recently been displaying bad behavior. Initially she was put in a hard position to manage two undergrads over the summer but since then she had plagiarized one of their posters (literally just put herself as first author), only given research updates showing their data (re- peak fitting for no seeming reason- one of the undergrads has been on the project longer than she was), and now she is presenting a senior group member’s unpublished data without their permission. Several times she has talked to me, a senior group member as if she and my boss are the PIs  (at one point referring to her undergrads and herself as her “group”). 

I understand that she was put in a bad position but she isn’t collecting data (I think she has collected a total of 2 sets of data in almost a year) and continually takes 2-4 hour lunch breaks when she isn’t watching Netflix on the computer. The last thing is that she continually orders gas tanks to go into a shared lab space (that happens to be a rad lab) without telling anyone and several people have to cover for her job.

I am posting to see if I should approach my boss (seeing as she is presenting again this week, for the third time as a second year) or confront her about taking other people’s data. I guess it seems like she is just asserting herself like a position in industry (I do chemistry) but she isn’t even post comps yet.",6,22,0.8208859525207016,GradSchool
Time commitment?,"I’m getting ready to apply for grad schools and want an idea of what people’s time commitment is to their program. I know I’m not going to be able to work even part time, and I know it’s gonna be time-consuming (both my parents have graduate degrees and said about 60 hrs/week was normal with some weeks being more than that by a minor or significant margin). What is your program and how much time per week are you putting into it? Do you have time to do other things on occasion? Go hiking, cook a good meal, play video games, etc? Maybe not every night but do you guys have time to unwind or is it just gonna be a long slog until I get the degree I want? I’d love to have my dog with me during grad school (she keeps me sane and happy) but IDK if I’d have time to care for her adequately and still complete all of my responsibilities.",4,1,0.8210942858540349,GradSchool
Civil Engineering - Msc Students - Politecnico di Milano,"Hello fellow students,

I have applied for the Civil Engineering masters program for the Politecnico di Milano 2020/1 academic year. 

I am from Brazil and my GPA is 8.56/10 from a very reputable university in my country and did research during undergrad in the area of structural optimization (which eventually become a paper coauthored by me).

However, there’s little to no information about previous international students who got in the civil engineering masters program offered by Polimi.

So, is there anyone who has done/doing an MSc in Civil Engineering there who would be able to assess my chances or at least share their experience/profile? 

Thanks so much!",4,2,0.8526336377058868,GradSchool
"Strongly considering dropping out of my program after this year, any advice?","So I’m in a Statistics program in NYC and work full time, so it’s not like I’m going to have to find a job. I am having an issue with my professors and the quality of education that I’m getting because I honestly feel like it’s complete crap. I’m frustrated and at this point feel like I’m better off dropping out and either looking for other ways to learn what I want (data science) or go back to the drawing board and apply elsewhere in a year or so that has a better program with better instructors. I’m also basically failing my classes which is mostly a me issue and partly because I just don’t have good professors who teach properly. 

I would really appreciate any advice you guys have because I’m honestly really stressed out and close to withdrawing tomorrow.",4,1,0.8633396562244054,GradSchool
Is getting PhD harder than medical school?,"I’m thinking of dropping out of med school because honestly it’s sucking the life out of me and I find myself studying all day, almost everyday. I’m not doing well either as I’m barely passing. I’m thinking about doing a masters in psychology then pursue a PhD later, but there’s the opportunity cost. I had a 4.0 gpa in my undergrad in psychology and it’s something which has always interested me. I hear people saying how it’s really tough and they wouldn’t do it again. I would like some feedback from people’s different point of views so that I’ve a decent idea about how does it really feel to get into the PhD route. I wish I had done that prior attending med school.",13,2,0.8749253043725534,GradSchool
Getting a master's degree without going into debt?,"Hello academics! I am interested in pursuing a Master's in Public Health or related degree. I currently work in the health research field at a leading medical school. I'm wondering if y'all know of any good avenues for getting an MPH (or related degree) without having to pay a huge sum of money (such as special programs, scholarships, etc)! I've seen a few options through my own research, but I'm wondering what you all might know about this as people more plugged-in to the academic world. All thoughts and recommendations are welcome :)",4,2,0.8843697488169979,GradSchool
I feel all my colleagues think I'm a loser.,"I know this is imposter syndrome, but I feel like all my colleagues think poorly of me and think I am not a good scientist in my program. So, I am a 3rd year PhD student at a Top 10 institute for astrophysics and I nearly failed candidacy. I couldn't answer basic questions during my practice talk and it was embarrassing. I shut down halfway through since I felt so crappy about myself. I basically broke down afterwards and cried the entire weekend. I feel like such a loser and I think everyone in my program thinks poorly of me. I couldn't even answer basic questions related to my material. So, I passed actual candidacy but even then they sat down with me and told me I was disorganized and that I wrote about my topic too broadly. That by looking too broadly I didn't get to learn the material super in-depth like they were hoping. They told me that if I correct myself from now on then candidacy has served its purpose and that's why they passed me. Kind of like a wake up call. I deserved to fail and the only reason they passed me was because they felt sorry for me. No one fails candidacy at my school, so they must have not wanted to deal with that. 

I'm such a failure of a PhD student. Everyone around me is so much more talented and dedicated than I am and I'm scrounging around trying to come up with a new research project. I love the field, but I can't help to think that everyone is better than me. I'm really trying my best, but I can't around that I passed because they felt sorry for me. How do you get past these feelings? I feel like I'm about to cry right now.",8,12,0.9148327117799608,GradSchool
What are the main things you look for when choosing a grad school?,"I am looking into grad schools and I was wondering if there were any key factors that I should be looking for. I found this article that includes a flowchart that is helpful (linked below), but I was wondering if anyone else had tips? 

[https://www.usa.edu/blog/how-to-choose-a-grad-school/](https://www.usa.edu/blog/how-to-choose-a-grad-school/)

Thanks :)",11,5,0.9445202117799608,GradSchool
"Halfway through the fall semester and we’re still alive! I believe in you all, even the humanities people.",I jest. I believe wholeheartedly that without the humanities life would be magnitudes less joyful.,9,96,0.9489646562244054,GradSchool
Feeling Lonely - so thought about reaching out (DM me),feeling lonely these days so reaching out on the threads I use most.,11,1,0.9684206747429239,GradSchool
Regarding the Chem subject exam; am I screwed?,"TL,DR: I, partially by my own fault, may have gotten screwed out of the Chem subject exam but have some pretty good credentials otherwise and am curious how much this might impact my chances at some of the “higher-tier” schools I’m applying to.

Alright, I’ll start with a disclaimer; I’m not trying to brag about anything here nor do I need to hear “you brought this upon yourself” because I am well aware I did. Thanks!

On to my mess.

I’ve been waiting to register for the chemistry GRE until I can reasonably drop the $150.00 after paying this month’s rent and paying the $200.00 for the general GRE. I finally got the change together (I work two part time jobs during school), but it appears that the chem subject test may not be offered again until April 4th of 2020 (even though it still has a “Y” instead of an “N” on their website).

I am a senior with all of my undergraduate requirements complete I have a 3.93 overall and 3.97 major GPA on a 4.00 scale. These include graduate courses in chemistry and do not include the four semesters of A’s for undergraduate research that will be going in shortly. I have been involved heavily in research for over two years, having presented my work at numerous conferences, and was recently invited to present at yet another on the hosting university’s dime. I recently received a Goldwater scholarship and also completed a competitive internship over the summer at a top pharmaceutical company doing organic synthesis (similar to the medicinal chemistry I do at school).  I have also received two fellowships through my school and a national ACS award.

My rec letters, to my knowledge, are solid (they have been successful and come from reputable people but obviously I’ve never read them). My personal statement is reasonably strong.

I do plan to apply to some of the “top ten” schools. How much of a detriment will the lack of a subject test be to my application? Any help would be appreciated, and I’m trying to get into contact with ETS to potentially get this sorted.

Thanks much for your time and any feedback.",0,0,1.0113489154836646,GradSchool
Collaborative Academic Writing,"Hello, I am writing my first collaborative article with 5 other co-authors. Is there a way to coordinate it effectively? I have to admit that I don't really know how to go about writing an article with 5 people.",1,1,1.012483174742924,GradSchool
Tips to structure unstructured time,"Hello everyone,

I am a first-year Ph.D student. As you know, grad school is very much unstructured time. I have noticed since the beginning of the year that I struggle to structure my time in a way that's effective. I spend a lot of time surfing on the Internet and social media, and I do realize that this time could be best allocated elsewhere (for instance, working on publications and article ideas). I still manage to do most of what I have to do, but I feel like I could be more productive in a sense.

I don't believe i had this issue when I did my master's degree, even though it was thesis-based. I'm currently doing coursework, so my time will be even more unstructured after comps and I want to develop better time management habits as soon as possible.

For upper-years Ph.D. students, do you have any tips for me?",2,3,1.013791045113294,GradSchool
MBA or Technical Masters coming from accidental fintech developer background,"Hi All,

I've been tearing my hair out over this, and was hoping I could seek some internet advice.

One of my general life goals is to  attain a masters degree.  I love learning, feel like I'm my ""best self"" at school, and have felt lacking something ever since I graduated from undergrad in 2014 with dual majors in economics and finance.

When I was an idealistic youth back in undergrad, I wanted to do finance and law, so I got my finance and econ dual degrees, and ended up getting an internship (then job) on a desk at an institutional asset manager.  The plan was to then go to law school in a few years.  I had a good GPA,  test well on standardized tests so that fit my plan.

Eventually, I ended up getting into software development at my company after the team lead convinced me to try it.  I've been doing that for \~3 or 4 years and am now a senior engineer working on proprietary portfolio management software.  I really like it, and make decent money. However, I still want to go to grad school.  Here is my conundrum:

I don't know whether to do part time or full time school, and then whether to get an MBA or pursue a technical masters, like one in Data Science.  I really like the technical side of what I do, but I also really like leadership and big-picture strategy

If I got into a top tier school, I'd go full time.  If not, I'd prefer part time because I like my job (and I like having income).  That said, ""top tier"" is kind of an arbitrary line.

I'm old (27) for top tier MBAs.   Having 5-6 years of work experience definitely does not help for top tier schools.  I know MBAs definitely drop off in value after the top 20 or so, and I really would really love to go to a top school.  

I also don't have a STEM background.  I kind of backed into my software role.  I'd like to think I'm good at it, but I definitely know I was asked to join the team based on my financial knowledge, not because they saw me as a Zuck in the making.  With that, if I wanted a technical masters, I'd need to take a year's worth of Math pre-reqs (Calc 1- 3, and linear algebra) at minimum.  I could do that at a community college, but I'm not getting any younger in the meantime.

My  biggest fears are:

1. I get into a decent full time MBA program, graduate, and then can't get software a job in anything outside of project management due to lack of STEM undergrad, thus cutting my software development career short which would be rather unfortunate because I like what I do.

And

2.  I take my math pre-reqs, apply to technical programs, don't get accepted, and then am a year older and less competitive for MBA applications.

Any advise or recommendations would be much appreciated.  Should I go the technical route? MBA?  Go back to my old plan and go to law school (already had one career change from finance to tech).",6,1,1.0177378043725536,GradSchool
Advice Needed! Admissions/GRE Score,"So, i need some honest advice. I’m applying to ChemE PhD programs. Just took the GRE, and fucked up hard on quant. Got 159Q/159V. I had been getting low to mid 160’s on all practice material.

With a 3.8 UG GPA, research in 3 labs, 3 author/co-author poster presentations at conferences, an REU, and some honors distinctions, is it worth retaking? Also, working full-time at the moment.",1,0,1.05159197103922,GradSchool
Looking for fellowships,Just wondering if anyone out in the ether knows of any fellowships that a second year engineering PhD student can apply to (I've reviewed the GRFP qualifications and I'm 99.9% certain I don't qualify since I'm in my second year and already hold a masters degree).,3,0,1.0572285451132941,GradSchool
“Cheap” graduate schools for Economics?,"Every time I try to google this only online programs come up. 

My GPA will be >3.5 when I graduate, so I don’t know how scholarships will work. I also go to a state school, not a prestigious school. Still need to take a GRE; I didn’t even consider graduate school until today. 

I would love to get into Duke, but that $55k a year is not something I’d sign up for. 

Also I’m based in NY, so if I could stay here that’d be lovely!",4,0,1.0913836377058868,GradSchool
Depressing six weeks in PhD. . .,"Hi all.

I feel like I need to get this off my chest because. . . it's getting so hard to move forward. I moved to a new city to start my PhD in the beginning of September. I'm far away from home. I'm sure many of you have experienced this: losing the comfort of family, friends, daily routines, hobbies, and familiar locale. We all have to go back to square one, basically. Fix up your new home, reset your routines, find places to go for daily necessities, comfort, leisure, etc.

I was excited to start working in the lab and learning new things. I know I've got a lot of work to do because I'm practically changing fields as a chemist going into the biomedical sciences. I made the decision to come here because (a) I wanted to both expand my lab skills and deepen my understanding of medicine (my main research interest is in medicinal chemistry), and (b) I wanted to experience a different culture as I am hoping to really develop myself as a person. This is a beautiful city to live in. Everyone I met in my department has been nice and welcoming. However, around three weeks ago, I've realized that I am unable to do things. I cannot make friends even when everyone is being nice. I do try to form some bond with my colleagues. We talk, we laugh, we've gone out and had drinks. But I just cannot, for some reason, find enjoyment in being social. It's a pity. They're all good people.

I also cannot focus on work even though I want to be productive. I'm aware of this crippling imposter syndrome that I've got. I know so little. Everyone around me already knows so much. I just freeze. I already dread attending the journal clubs because I feel so embarrassed that I cannot keep up (I don't speak biology). I'm the only new student who is fumbling around. I'm afraid that my supervisor might think he made the wrong decision of choosing me. I've been here for six weeks and I cannot even build my own project.

The weather is only making it worse. The cold is not my friend. Every morning I struggle to get out of bed. My back is starting to hurt. I'm sweating a lot even though I feel like I'm freezing. When I'm in the lab I feel like I'm just waiting for the day to go by. Sometimes I get out of our building to take a walk to make myself feel better. It does not. I know I love running but somehow, after going out for a run a few times. . . I just feel guilty that I'm still not feeling any better. I just get tired and go to bed right after.

I talk to my mom on the phone. I explain to her how I'm feeling in my situation. She has given me words of encouragement, as all moms do. She says I've got to change my mindset and work as hard as I can. I honestly don't know if I'm capable. All I think about is going home. . .

Some of my lab mates have told me to give myself some time. I am just feeling a bit down because I just got here and I'm still in a bit of a shock. But I'm not sure how much longer I have to stay this way. When do I get myself out of this? How? I want to get better now. I really do.",3,3,1.1172169710392201,GradSchool
Predatory Journals,"I finished a research paper - woo! I'm being pushed by professors to get it published and many are encouraging me to make a proposal for it to submit to 2020-21 conferences. When I asked for suggestions from my adviser on where to submit, I was given shrug and told to 'avoid the predators'. (I think he's just swamped with his 5/5 filled with a ton of undergrads facing midterms, honestly. He'll probably have a better answer in about two weeks). 

What are some red flags that you've come across that made you avoid submitting your work somewhere? Any additional advice, words of wisdom, or experiences you could share?",7,6,1.1271475265947757,GradSchool
How to re-reviewe a revised and resubmitted article?,"I recently was invited to peer review a research study (yay! my first time doing this!). I recommended major revisions. The authors have gone above and beyond addressing my and other reviewers' concerns, and the paper is drastically improved. What should I write about the new review? Can I, in a few sentences, summarize the improvements and recommend acceptance, or do I need to give a full length, detailed review? I am very new to this and trying to learn.",2,2,1.1557586377058868,GradSchool
I don't have any social life and I feel miserable,"I will probably delete it at some point because I will probably be embarrassed. Even so, I am still writing it because I need to vent it to yall anonymous people. Just bear with me please. 

I am a foreign student currently doing master's thesis. My family isn't well off enough to fund me for masters, but thankfully I am on funded master's program in science. At first, I was so excited...but eventually, the excitement wore off and frustration built up. Here are couple things:

1. I live with my mom. Yes, a lot of people prefer living with their parents due to financial reasons, and this is true for me as well. But here is the thing. THat's it. In fact, if we didn't have enough money, I would be living with someone of my age. 

My mom, just like me, is a non-native speaker but because she is far older than I, she will probably never be as good as I am. However, she is a green card holder(I m not), works full time among other Americans and does great job. We both pay rent and utility 50/50. She is hardworking. However, I have to take care of everything else. If something breaks in our apartment, I have to call someone to fix it. If there is a wrong bill in our utility, I have to fix it. If there are roaches or crickets, I have to buy stuff to kill it. Basically, if something that is ever so slightly complicated, I have to take care of it on top of my own responsibility. I also cook for both of us because she is as stronga as a lonley twig that you can find in your yard, and she is far too tired to cook for herself at the end of the day. In fact, I take care of 75% of housework. Fuck, I even use some of my own money to help her pay for her credit card debt, which she accrued to take care of me in the past! 

I mentioned that she is as strong as an abandoned twig...yes, she complains a lot about physical pain, more so recently. She wasn't properly breastfed, so I guess thats why she is so fragile. She, just like me, doesn't have much social life other than having some phone calls with her friends in other states, which is still more than mine. 

Oh, did I mention how much she complains despite her denials? She complains that there is weird smell from sink there is barely, complains about bugs, about a laundry filter, about bathtub, everything! She also complains about her keys 'not working well' to lock the door when it works just fine. One time, she even told me to come back and lock the door because ""the lock was broken"" when I was already in a bus to go to my class. I dind't go back and told her to do it herself because the lock wasn't definitely broken. Can you imagine how annoying it is to have an overbearing, clingy parent who keeps messaing you at 7PM about when I will come home??

 

2. My lab is full of nice people, and my department is very supportive of students...but people in my particular lab are so boring. I have couple friends in different schools who are  pursuing Ph.D or M.D., and from what I know based on my conversations with them, their labmates seem to be...interesting enough to hang out. You know, go for some drinks, play card games, etc. I visited my friend in Georgia, and he invited me to play poker with his graduate school 'neighbor's. That was the most fun experience I ever had since I started my masters. 

We, on the other hands, barely interact outside the school. There are like 6 people in our lab, where one is an annoying stubborn lab technician, one is an old lab manager (as old as my mom), one female student who has a boyfriend, one post doc and one Ph.D who are good people but insufferably boring, and another international student that I barely talk to. Am I on friendly terms with them? Yes. Do I actually socialize with them? No. 

Perhaps it's just that we are too busy on our own and have no commonalities to hang out at all ,and I am being an asshole. I don't know. Either way, I feel incredibly lonely. My best friend from my undergrad is in medical school, and I don't wnat to bother him too much(especially because I am a guy). What's funny is that I didn't have much social life either in college or high school, but at least I had someone to chat with at least and go out for dinner. Now? I am completely alone.

3. And on top of that, there is a general anti-immigration politics going around, and even though I am not one of those migrants and undocumented people that the media yammer about left and right, there's definitely heavy stone inside me that I can't seem to get rid of. I plan to become a GC holder within next few years, but I have had this unreasonable fear that my plan will fail due to some random fuck ups somewhere and I will lose everything that i have worked for, and I will be jobless. 

Do I mind helping out my mom? Mostly, no. Did I have rose dream about having the best fun time in grad school? Absolutely not. But all this pressure and stresses coming from my absolute zero social activities are driving me insane and cost me my work drive. Now, I just want to give up everything, lie down and do nothing, but I can't do that. If I do, I will have to leave the USA otherwise become an illegal alien, and if I do go back, what's left for me? My home country is notorious for employee abuse, name privilege, age hierarchy and age discrimination. 

I can't give up everything I worked for, but this black pit of loneliness has plagued me for months, and I never felt this isolated before. And this is coming from someone who never had and wanted more than 2 or 3 friends.

Thanks for reading my random rant.

TL;DR. Researching, taking care of most of house work and my vulnerable mom, no social life has become too much for me and I have no drive whatsoever.",0,1,1.2656660451132942,GradSchool
Wage expectation for a Graduate hourly lab tech/research assistant job? (Northeast),"Long story short, I have had spotty contact with a PI working in their lab. It felt like pulling teeth to communicate via email with her, but I finally went in for an interview and nailed it. The interview went well and it felt more like a conversation and brain storming session of how to address this project delegated to me. I walked out feeling great after she discussed the project(s) she wants me working on and my long-term goals to incorporate some work into my MPH fieldwork requirement. I was supposed to hear from her with follow up last week to get started and still haven't heard squat after following up myself.

SOMEHOW after getting caught up in the conversation, salary was never discussed and I do not want to get low-balled. I have a good deal of experience with a certain arachnid during the summer, working full-time in the field (shit wages). I have a friend with research assistant experience that says she makes 18 an hour.",2,1,1.268281785854035,GradSchool
Burn-out prevention/coping thread,I've been seeing a lot of posts about people feeling burnt out and lacking motivation to finish their programs (I know all to well how real the burn out is) so I thought maybe it would be helpful if we started a thread to share some strategies that have helped to prevent or deal with burn out.  Grad school is tough and finding ways to take healthy breaks can be really difficult.,10,11,1.3035942858540348,GradSchool
Profile for Masters in Mathematics.,"I'm currently doing my undergraduate studies in mathematics from a Tier 2 University. And I plan to pursue my Masters from a well recognised University in mathematics. My question is that how should I build my profile and what element should I have in my profile, to get into a good University to study mathematics.",0,0,1.3311637302984793,GradSchool
PhD (Management) feedback and Imposter Syndrome : how do you guys do it ?,"Hey guys, happy to post here for the first time !

I'll be applying for Organizational Behavior PhDs shortly (sept 2020 intake) and i'd love to have some feedback from postgrads in this field, or even other fields. I experience kind of an imposter syndrome right now (I don't feel legitimate applying to selective programs, or even PhD at all) and I guess i'm looking for a bit of support too ?

Some backstory : Msc student from a good french business school (Top 4), got some research experience (did a 6 months research internship in a OB department of an average/bad university in Japan), very average gpa (13.5 in French system, around 3.5 i guess ?), still haven't passed gmat/gre. I've spent the last 2 years doing an apprenticeship in the industry (hence the not so great gpa) and I realized it wasn't meant for me, so i'm switching back to my original plan, research.

I'm mostly interested in the metamorphosis of work, the individual/societal relationship to work (happiness, fulfillment, unpaid work, etc) and how does it relate to welfare economics (UBI, social security ..).

I'd really like some feedback on some OB programs, which departments you'd recommend me and if i'm really out-of-line thinking about doing a PhD.

I wonder too if anyone has this imposter syndrome and how they deal with it ?

Thanks a lot !

Edit : spelling",0,0,1.375642896965146,GradSchool
"Last year, after 3 years of my PhD, I had no results (or anything written). This week, I handed in my thesis.","I'm writing this because my PhD really damaged my self-esteem, so I want to practice being proud of myself. So yeah, I'm proud of saving my PhD pretty much all by myself, with some help from my colleagues. I had no idea it was even possible to go from 0 - 100% in the space of a year.

I also wanted to write this to give hope to other students who are deep into their PhD and feel behind, especially those who have been left behind by their supervisors (like I was). So I'm happy to chat or offer advice related to those problems here/in PMs -- too many of us suffer in silence and it's super important to talk about these problems earlier rather than later.",47,487,1.3775989154836645,GradSchool
3rd year and I just need to rant,"I’m a third year grad student (medical professional field) after 5 yrs undergrad. 

I feel like no one understands what it’s like to be a grad student unless you are one. I can tell you
I’m stressed until I’m blue in the face, but it’s a stress you can’t explain. 

You thought high school was bad? You thought undergrad was bad? You thought first/second year of grad school were bad?

I feel like I’m dumber than everyone around me, but I’m a 3.5 student so I know I’m not. 

I feel like I’m constantly drowning and playing catch up, just running on a treadmill trying to keep up and never getting ahead. I feel completely alone and like every other student is well-organized and on top of their work while I’m behind and drowning. 

I feel like all the students are always in competition. No one wants to show weakness and admit they’re drowning. 

Self care? Ha. I’ve pulled an all-nighter before every exam for the last 2+ years (and we have an exam every 5 days or so.) 

I skip class to catch up. I cancel social events to study, but STILL fall behind. 

I barely sleep. When I do sleep, my sleep schedule is ALL over the place. From entirely nocturnal one day to diurnal the next. When I do sleep, it’s for 15-18 hours. 

I’m stressed and it makes me nauseous or not want to eat. I never drink water - I survive on soda, juice, and tea. 

I’ve been in college 8 years and I feel like I’m still scrambling for the right study method. My old methods just don’t work for 3rd year grad school - just too much material And not enough time. 

I’m in hundreds of thousands of dollars of debt and I still have no money for living expenses. 

I haven’t been to the gym in over a year because there’s just no time. 

I haven’t been involved in any of my hobbies due to where I live for school, financial constraints, time constraints, stress, and the guilt of not studying. 

I procrastinate because I just don’t want to study, but I can’t even relax because I feel guilty every second I’m not studying. 

I walk into every exam feeling like I’m going to fail - despite the fact that I’ve never failed an exam. I could always study MORE. There is no “done”. 

In undergrad, you have time to go over all the material multiple times. In grad school, you’re lucky if you get through all the material ONCE. 

My program has no summer breaks, so the most we get is 2 weeks between semesters. It’s not enough time to recover before diving right back in, so I feel like I’ve been going non stop for 2+ years. 

I’m dealing with IBS, heartburn, nausea, hemorrhoids/fissures, constipation/diarrhea, horrible breakouts, headaches/migraines, depression, TMJ/jaw clenching, nightmares, fatigue, skin picking, insomnia and hypersomnia, and anxiety. 

I’m burnt out and I have no motivation to study the subject that I love.

(Edit: Am seeing a therapist already.)",12,6,1.3893234525207017,GradSchool
Good Impact Factor,"What's considered to be a good impact factor for Chemical Engineering Journals?
I know there is no difinite number, but like the norm from your experince",4,2,1.3912216006688498,GradSchool
Finally submitted by thesis!,"I finally submitted my thesis, I’m overall happy with it but I know I could have done more in the intro with more time - but the stress of it had been over my head, and I just wanted it in. I’ll take corrections over this.",1,9,1.5494391932614424,GradSchool
"""Stay Hungry, Stay Foolish: What do I eat? ""","As a soon to be grad student, I'll be moving to  a new continent, thousands of miles away. Grad school, list most of you know a nd some of us will find out- is challenging and requires a lot of time and attention. This requires you to maintain a proper diet and not starve yourself. 

So here's a simple question to all of you- 

1. did you know how to cook when you moved out? 
2. what are some common and easily available things you should buy along with your groceries? 
3. what do you cook and how much of it ?
4. how often do you go grocery shopping?",4,1,1.6051336377058867,GradSchool
What's the most you've written in a day?,"I'm just curious! (I'm trying to get the first draft of my thesis finished tomorrow, but it's looking like it won't happen—because I'm a horrendously slow writer, haha.)",8,1,1.6524484525207015,GradSchool
I just.... can't.,"Sorry for yet another depressing post here, but hoping maybe someone will have some advice for me, since I feel like I've tried every trick in the book...

Long story short - 6th year grad student, couple papers away from getting out of here, and have just lost all motivation.  A lot of it is mental health related, yes I'm medicated and yes I'm in therapy, but in the short term I kind of just need to push through it.  At the moment I'm weeks behind on getting a manuscript draft sent to collaborators, supposed to present a poster in a few days that I haven't started yet, advisor is talking about academic probation... and yet I've just spent the entire day sitting on the couch watching youtube videos (probably to keep myself from thinking or feeling).  I've tried breaking tasks down into tiny little pieces; I've tried rewarding myself, I've tried punishing myself; I've tried asking other people to hold me accountable; I've tried starting with the easiest part, starting with the hardest part, starting with something non-work-related just to get me in the swing of being productive... but nothing seems to work for more than a few minutes at a time.

Obviously this is not sustainable, obviously this is going to come crashing down any day now, but I just can't seem to force myself to GET THE DAMN WORK DONE!  A lot of it isn't even that hard, if I could just get myself to even try.  Is it laziness?  Is it depression?  Is it lack of motivation, lack of focus, lack of executive function?  No idea, but whatever it is, it's about to make my life implode, so any suggestions for where to go from here would be greatly appreciated....",5,12,1.680295674742924,GradSchool
3rd Year Science Undergrad Student Looking At PhD in Toxicology ... Need some advice! [Canadian],"Alright so I'm a 3rd year undergrad student looking to find a career specifically in toxicology. It sounds like a great career to get into and I'm really interested in the field.  My undergrad program right now is specialized in pathology (with courses related to Tox), and I'll be doing a thesis in 4th year. 

To give some groundwork, here are some of my stats:

- cGPA 3.93 over first 2 years... Expected to raise in last two.
- 1 Publication Nature Scientific Reports 
- 2 months full time lab work in world renowned medical biophysics lab
- Currently working in University lab, projected 1 year (possible publication)
- (in future) Thesis project for 1 year

My main question I guess is how to improve my chances of perhaps getting into a direct entry PhD program, specifically in toxicology. I know UofT has a collaborative specialization in Tox, but I'm sure that's a really hard program to get into. What can I do now to raise my chances of getting into this field of work? Also, would you guys recommend going to the states/apply there? Thanks! Any advice is greatly appreciated!",1,0,1.7405271562244053,GradSchool
Good Grad Schools for Microbiome Reseach!,"Dear Reddit,

I am planning to apply for PhD programs to do research on specifically the Gut Microbiome! (I also have interest in working with animals and 

&#x200B;

Since there are so many programs out there, it would be very time consuming to go through all the professors so I thought it would be a good idea to  ask reddit which schools in America have good professors and research in the Microbiome field!

&#x200B;

I would love to hear your opinions!!",1,1,1.7406891932614426,GradSchool
Sent my thesis advisor a completed first draft of my prospectus today!,"After months of researching and meetings and like 15 drafts of research questions to figure out the perfect wording for my study, today I finally sent in a completed first draft of my thesis prospectus/the first 3 chapters of my thesis to my advisor!! I didn’t anticipate feeling such high levels of excitement upon completion, but I feel exhilarated! Typing up the closing sentiments in the conclusion was so relieving I actually felt stress lift out of my body and dissipate. Now to await feedback from my advisor...",0,5,1.7880155821503312,GradSchool
Technical interview questions for PhD in Data Science?,"I just get an technical interview in a few days for PhD in Data Science and I'm wondering what kind of questions will probably appear since this is kinda a new field.

I have been working in the industry building & evaluating machine learning models for a few years so I'm okay with practical concepts in this field, but I'm not so sure about academic & research level. Anyone has any idea? Thank you.",0,1,1.7901452117799608,GradSchool
I've decided I'm going to drop out of school.,"I can't take it anymore. I've only been in school for a month and a half and I'm just done. I don't care about my degree. I don't care about what I'm learning. I hate my professors. I hate being there. I've been miserable ever since I got there. Once this semester is over, I'm dropping out. I can't wait for this nightmare to end.",13,1,1.8220549340021832,GradSchool
"has anyone use this that lets you get free full text of papers? has high ratings, and is recently updated but i've never seen it work for me (i have js off tho and that could be why)",,2,0,1.8569391932614423,GradSchool
I'm almost finished with writing the first chapter of my thesis,"I'm tired, I haven't been sleeping, I've been eating junk, my apartment is a mess, and I haven't showered in three days but I'M ALMOST FINISHED! I've just got my conclusion for the first chapter to somehow squeeze out of my pulped brain! Then it's a full chapter! 

Of course there's editing to do, and some rewriting of the introduction as usual, but that's par for the course. I'm 25 pages deep and so proud of myself for putting together something that I assume is half okay and relatively coherent! 

This was just my way of turning my brain back on for that final push. Y'all can ignore this. I just needed to tell someone who wasn't the other grad student in the office who is also in a mental pulp state. GO ME!",3,24,1.865469285854035,GradSchool
"I would love to get some info on going to graduate school, but I don’t have anyone to talk to about it","I graduated in May with a computer science degree, and I’ve been wanting to go to graduate school since I was a freshman. Unfortunately, my alma mater doesn’t offer CS grad school so I was wondering if I could have some help. First off, I’m broke. I need to apply for scholarships and loans if I’m going to do any of this. In addition, when does my deferment start? I realize I couldn’t get in to probably next fall with current matriculation dates, but if I got approved for then, when does my loan deferment start? Next fall or when I report acceptance and am signed up to start? That is if I can sign up once/if I’m accepted? Are there scholarships and loans for graduate school? I don’t want to sound entitled or foolish, but I literally have no way I paying so I would need to be all scholarship and loan. How do I even apply to grad school? I’m sorry to come with nothing to the table, but I’ve always wanted to go and I want to make this happen. The real benefit to doing it now instead of waiting is that I don’t have a job and I haven’t been able to get a job, so the loan deferment would really be a help. That definitely is not a decider and I still want to apply if it won’t help, but it definitely is a nice bonus. So far I’ve looked at Georgia Tech’s online program because I’ve heard it’s cheap and good, but I’m open as long as it’s an online program. Thank you so much in advance!",1,3,1.881094285854035,GradSchool
I didn’t do anything this weekend,And it felt great. Don’t give in to the over-work culture if you don’t have anything going on at the moment.,54,326,1.917830396965146,GradSchool
Feeling a little pressured,"TLDR/ in program on fellowship, feeling pressured by faculty to do extra well but may be in my head.

So I just started my MA in history, and went back to my alma mater because they're straight-up paying for it with a fellowship and it gives me a little time to decide what I'm doing. I took two years off after undergrad.

I'm feeling very pressured by expectations in the department. It's a good department but most of the students are going to finish after this MA/focusing on teaching. The department clearly expects me to go on to my PhD because I'm more of an academic solely I guess?

The department waived me into a postseminar I wasn't really qualified for (I didn't understand what it was) so I'm taking the prereq and the course at the same time. Basically doing my thesis as a first semester grad student. I'm doing tons of reader-grader work. The professor for the graduate course I took as an undergrad mentioned I did that to some of my cohort. Just kinda feeling pressuring to be perfect. Is it just in my head/my anxiety disorder?

/rant over",2,0,1.9521359525207016,GradSchool
#number of publications needed for PhD,"If I want a scholarship/assistantship in lets say one of the top 50 universities in US/UK to take my PhD in Engineering as an international student, how much do I need to publish before applying ? and whats the middle ground between the paper quality and the journal's impact factor to the number of publication needed ?

I know there is no definite answer for all cases, but looking forward to read your thoughts and experiences , thanks.",6,0,1.9554577117799607,GradSchool
Discussing a paper that I have no clue about?,I have been assigned to discuss a paper in an academic conference that is not my area and that I have no clue about. I hate just reading it. Suggestions?,3,5,1.9860711377058868,GradSchool
Going for Urban Studies with a BS in an unrelated field (CS),"I majored in CS and graduated with a 3.95 from UGA and currently work at a top cloud computing company as a software engineer. I graduated last year and can’t help but feel I made a huge mistake, I am not as passionate about this field as I thought I was.

Is it possible to go from a STEM degree -&gt; humanities MA/PhD? I don’t have strong research experience but I have the grades and great (albeit unrelated) work experience. I also have some interesting experiences like a study abroad at the University of Oxford, where I took some upper division English and History courses and did well. I’m going to work on studying for the GRE but I don’t anticipate it being an issue because I’m good at exams. 

I want to become a more well rounded individual, and I hate that my undergraduate studies were so narrow. I’m ultimately interested in working in urban policy.

My current path is optimal financially. I’m probably in the top 1 percent in terms of earnings for new grads. My life is devoid of meaning, though, and I feel I have to dedicate my time to something else in order to ever do something impactful. I’m still sketching out what this means for me, but I’ve been an ardent admirer of cities, urbanism, and architecture since I was young. I’d like to study urban policy, particularly with a focus on public housing reform. I’m interested in retaining class equality in our American cities in a time where global capital is aggressively co-opting and privatizing them.

I’m not well read as I would like, although I suppose this is something I could pick up in my own time. I’m interested in the design of public housing and how it can designed to be more economically integrative and socially pliable, as opposed to the towered albatrosses we see in cities like New York today. Vienna and Singapore have shown success in this, and I would like to explore how this could be integrated into American urban environments. I’d particularly like to explore how the development how new American housing policy that I’m proposing would contrast with the political, economic, and cultural effects of housing policy in the 20th century.

This is personally meaningful to me as well as I moved to New York City this year and have personally seen the impacts of hyper-gentrification and rising housing costs, my idea was that I could weave this into some sort of personal statement.",2,0,2.063814193261442,GradSchool
[For Hire] The Best of The Best Writing Services,"Allow me to introduce myself. My name is **Jack O. Allan**. I am an EFL writer. For a long time now, I have been helping students on reddit to  deliver their  assignments on time while observing strict adherence to instructions and formatting guidelines. 

In my line of work, I have collaborated with notable writing service providers such as **Uvocorp, Writerbay, Course Hero, 4Writers, Chegg, up work, and Academia Research**, and as such, I confidently guarantee the quality of my work. Additionally, I check projects through Copyscape and Turnitin, and to further ensure the authenticity of my work, every submission I make comes with a Plagiarism Report.

Hiring me  is very simple and friendly. The step by step procedure is as follows;

**1) Send me an email (writers4hiretoday@gmail.com)**

**2) Cut a deal with me ($15 per APA page)**

**3) Send all the instructions and the deadline to my email.**

**4) Sit back and relax as I do the job and deliver**

**5) Review my work. (Top-notch)**

**6) pay after reviewing and making sure it is up to your standards and expectation.**

**7) Close the deal with a thank you note and contact me again whenever you need more help : )**

**Feel free to contact me on any queries regarding proof or assistance in academics; papers, essays, discussions, assignments, and homework. I also take over full classes and do timed exams and quiz.**

I promise Full Confidentiality of all projects I undertake. My variable rates start at $15 per page. The price is the best. Trust me, this is the most customer friendly service in the market, writing companies will charge you thrice the amount. My statement is evidence-based.

**You may also want to follow me on /r/writers4hire/**

**Thank you for your time.**",1,0,2.0713141932614425,GradSchool
The importance of stupidity in scientific research,,9,56,2.096684563631813,GradSchool
Help!!! I'm eating like crap!!!,"&#x200B;

I’m working full time and “going” to grad school full time.  I say “going” because it’s an online program to get a Masters in Health Informatics. Still, I’m doing roughly 30-35 hours/week on school stuff. 

I live in Chicago and have many options for food delivery, but it’s an expensive, unhealthy habit that I HAVE to break!  The problem is, I’m a terrible cook.  I was a terrible cook BEFORE going back to school!  I also live alone so I ending up wasting so much!

Night after night I realize it’s 9pm and I haven’t eaten dinner.  I SAY next time I’ll meal plan, but I’m just clueless.

So now my pants aren’t fitting and I AM NOT going a size up!  I REFUSE!

What the hell do you guys do?  I was thinking of getting a juicer.  I don’t know when my last vegetable was.  I had a peach 2 weeks ago.   But, isn’t juicing expensive?  I mean, it’s not like I haven’t spent my paycheck on food delivery or anything.

What about an Instapot?  One of those zucchini twirl thingies to replace that with regular pasta noodles?

I’m depressed, I’m lonely, I’m eating like crap, I’m not working out because I’m too busy eating like crap and feeling sorry for myself.

I need some Reddit guidance.  And a kick in the ass. ",79,100,2.1642192858540352,GradSchool
Looking for advice about getting a Master's of Library and Information Science," 

I currently work in a Digital Humanities Center in a university library. My title is office associate, but I also work on digital humanities projects (two digital archives projects). The pay is $31k a year, which is enough for me to live comfortably (in Nebraska) but is not ideal either. And I have health and dental insurance through the university, which is great.

I have a bachelor's degree in English. I would like to keep learning, develop hard skills, and get paid more (I'd kill to make $50k a year). One benefit of working at the university is that I can take up to 15 credit hours of classes a year for free. I got close to applying for the English master's program, but I decided that I wasn't interested enough in my school's English graduate program to push through 2-3 years of taking classes and working full time. Library and Information Science seems more interesting to me and more applicable to the work I'm doing now and the types of jobs that I would be interested in working at in the future. The school I work at has three different library master's: elementary education, secondary education, and literacy —none of which I'm very interested in, even though they would be free. I'm much more interested in a MLIS in archival studies, digital humanities, user experience, or data analytics. I want a more technology focused program. I'm not interested in being a school librarian.

So, considering all of this, my plan is to get an online MLIS in a concentration I'm actually interested in while continuing to work full time at my digital humanities center job. This would mean spending roughly $10,000-$20,000. I believe I could take some of the courses through the university I work at and transfer the credits, which would reduce the price a bit. For a little more context, I am 30 years old and recently married. Moving to a different city or being a full time student would be challenging right now, but not totally impossible.

I know an MLIS is a low ROI master's, but I'm not sure what else I could realistically get at this point in my life.

TLDR: Is it crazy of me to spend money on an online MLIS when I have the option to get a master's for free (but in a field I'm not very interested in)?

Thanks for reading.",0,6,2.18934660066885,GradSchool
Dissertation help,"Hi Everyone, I’m a part time student studying a masters program in design management. I have managed to pass all the modules up til the dissertation. Initially I had a very different research topic and was later advices to change by the TAs. Long story short, I have compromised with the TAs advice and tried to follow their suggested research. It was a very last minute change and in result I have failed and needed to resubmit.

My biggest struggle for the dissertation is the given research aim “How spatial design adds value to Hong Kong’s shopping mall by enhancing the visitor’s experience.”

This was the suggested research aim by the TA and I have difficulty planning out my research questions as following:
1. What is the context of shopping mall spatial design in Hong Kong?
2. How will visitor experience affect the market and attractiveness?
3. What are the factors that govern the visitor’s journey?
4. How can spatial design contribute to enrich the journey?
5. Who are the audiences of the enhancements of shopping experience?
6. What are the recommendations to the spatial designers in enhancing visitor’s experience?

The TAs has suggested for me to rewrite the literature review in analysing the knowledge gap in redesigning the research questions. If anyone have any recommendation would be great help.",0,1,2.280758637705887,GradSchool
Applying for one year scholarship. Would it make sense to include protocol of proposed collaboration study?,"Hey guys, i'm doing bioinformatics and there is this one year scholarship from large company, with commission consisting of mainly academics. I don't yet have published papers, but will attach some interesting results and skill presentations. Additionally, i have proposed a study with for profit company and they have shown some interest asking for additional details etc, but nothing yet finalised or funded.

Would it make sense to write about it in my scholarship motivation as well as add whole study transcript with summary? Hope to hear from someone with experience in such commissions or applying for scholarships.

Also, i have done a youtube ""street interview"" kind of video which was partly addressing popularisation of bioinformatics related topic, has 1k views. I am wondering wether or not it's appropriate to include it as ""social activity"".

tl;dr Is a planned study protocol something to add to your scholarship motivation?",0,0,2.2866498414095906,GradSchool
Canadian grad students! What GPA is competitive for the NSERC CGS-M?,"What kind of profile did you have if you got it?

Thanks so much!",11,8,2.3110364154836645,GradSchool
Is it ok to join an ongoing project for my thesis?,"I'm a first year, biochemistry master student.
I am interested in drug delivery and neuroscience and aspires to work abroad in industry. 
In my school students pay for their thesis costs, and even more often this year due to major cuts in funding.
After some meetings and emails I found a professor who works with genetics and stem cells and has already started working on a fully funded project.
She gave me an offer to take on this project for my thesis where I only have to pay bench fees (USD1300~). 
Now if I work with another professor, not funded but in my field of interest, covering all research needs will probably cost me (USD6000~) 
Now I'm very likely to take this project but I need to know the pros and cons. 
Is it ok to work on an ongoing project as a thesis? What about originality? What skills will I be missing out on? Would this make me less favored for positions in biotech and pharmaceutical industry?

As senior gradstudents and maybe professors, what do you think about this whole matter? Your opinion would be real helpful! 

TLTR: Master thesis project of my choosing with no funding vs. Funded project that is already set up and out of my interest?",14,17,2.322286415483665,GradSchool
"I'm writing a research paper about ""Modern Experimental Design"" and I need your help.","Hey everyone. Specifically, I'm wondering the difference between Modern E.D. and E.D. . As i searched all over the academic search engines i found nearly nothing. I need your help asap. Thanks.",1,0,2.5826104895577386,GradSchool
How to work toward getting into top grad schools without burning myself out,"Hello r/GradSchool, I'm a third-year undergrad student who plans on pursuing a PhD in my field (Materials Science & Engineering). As of now, my dream is to become a MSE professor. I'm very aware of how difficult it can be to obtain a faculty position nowadays, so I'm truly shooting for the best grad schools possible (given that they have research/PIs that fit my interests/needs). 

So far, I feel like I'm doing everything right. Good GPA, internships, research during the school year with a research group on my school's campus, extracurriculars, working on a publication, etc. But it just feels like I'm going to spend the next couple of years with extreme tunnel vision and not actually enjoy college as much as I could. I'm not miserable (I'm still having a decent time), but there is an ever-lingering stress that has formed over the last few months, and I'm not sure when (or if) it's going to go away.

Any advice on how to cope with this would be appreciated.",3,1,2.821256322891072,GradSchool
"I’m not going into Academia and that’s ok, better than ok.","After a couple years of feeling like I’m running towards a finish line that keeps moving further away, I finally feel ok about where I am. I love my research project, and always have, but realistically I’m significantly behind the curve if I wanted to go into academia after my PhD. For a long time, I thought that I did. But after connecting with people, working around, and thinking about what will make me happy, I’m ok with not going into academia. In fact, I’m more than ok. I’m happy and I feel hopeful. I can finally see a light at the end of the tunnel, the finish line has stopped moving, and I know I’ll be all good when I make it onto the other side with my PhD.",13,43,2.8805271562244052,GradSchool
Whoop whoop!,I finished two days of on demand comprehensive exams today! Oral defense date is set for 10/28. One foot in front of the other....,1,17,2.9633396562244054,GradSchool
I am BURNT OUT.,"I am in a fine arts masters program. I moved 800 miles away and I have no nearby family and my boyfriend could not move with me. 

I'm in my third semester, so I've been at this for over a year now. It hasn't been easy, but it's been tolerable and I've been able to just absorb myself in the work. However I'm now at thesis creation which I have been working on since June. For an MFA, it's not just a 40 page research paper, but I literally have to go out and make the work that I will then write about in my thesis paper. Due to my medium, this requires me to travel, to have long fieldwork days, to bring all the work back to my mentors only to tell me that I'm not doing enough or they don't get it.

I've been writing, journaling, producing work, attempting to finish the assignments for my other classes, and meeting with mentors. Everyone pulls me in different projects with the work that I literally had a nervous breakdown last weekend. I have four jobs on campus, none of which I can quit because I need the money to pay my rent and to have the ability to make my thesis. Traveling and the supplies I need to make my art are putting me into credit card debt.

I'm trying to have self-care by keeping my house clean, taking care of myself, watching crap TV in my downtime, and I just contacted a personal trainer for the gym. I feel like I have exhausted my thesis committee, my boyfriend, and cohort on how relentless the work feels and how tired I feel. But everyone tells me its just part of the process and that it's temporary, and that I'm doing everything I can. I have a history of panic attacks and I feel like I'm becoming more susceptible. I had a therapist over the summer but he was not a good fit so I stopped going. The therapists at the university just want to hand you a prescription and I am not interested in getting back onto antidepressants.

**The suspended state of stress and uncertainty for months on end feels extremely unhealthy.** 

Yet another rant here. I'm just lost.",33,157,2.9786984525207014,GradSchool
MBA Research/Internships,I'm currently a sophomore in my undergrad and I am planning on applying for grad schools for an MBA. I am really foreign to this process. I know internships and research play a big role in applying. What are some outstanding internships/research opportunities that I should be looking to apply to? I don't even know where to look for them.,1,0,3.0211290080762576,GradSchool
talk lab books to me!,"hey r/gradschool! a curious physicist here: do you, and how, you guys keep your lab books? we get ours ordered by our PI and i fill mine in daily, colour-coded and with all relevant plots/papers/etc in it, but i'm curious about other ideas. On paper, electronically, combinations...? Would love to hear your ideas and/or tips!",7,5,3.1203766932614423,GradSchool
Advice for a new Bioengineering Msc student?,"To my surprise, I've been accepted in a Masters program for Biomedical Engineering starting in April.

I've always wanted to join a program like this but my undergrad marks were somewhat low (I'm not in the US but I found it's about a 3.0 GPA) because I had a hard time due to depression (I even had to take less subjects a year than the other students and had to repeat some of them), so my hopes weren't up, but I actually got in thanks to my work experience.

I really want to do well in this program, because I'd like to further continue studying and maybe applying to a PhD program in the future. Any advice?

Is there any way of redeeming my bad undergrad marks through my Msc program?

Thank you all for your time reading this!",2,1,3.164358174742924,GradSchool
Which branch of history should I pursue? Military History or Women's History? or it doesn't matter?,"Hello.

I am an undergrad in my last semester who is going to do my masters in January, hopefully. I want to get my masters in Military History. However, I got an idea about an academic history book, and I want to publish that book through an university press, for which you need a PHD. So now I want to get a PhD in history. However, the book that I want to write is not related to military history, but more related to women's history. So I want to know which PhD. should I pursue. Military History or Women's history?

&#x200B;

Thank you.",7,0,3.3467424340021834,GradSchool
"For someone potentially interested in applying to a PhD program in the social sciences, will not having done a significant original research project before hurt?"," I'm right now pursuing a course-based Masters, but potentially interested in applying for a PhD later on. The 3-year programs in Europe are appealing for their short length, but I'm wondering if doing a course-based Masters without an original research thesis from a top-ranked school will hurt me vs. first doing a Masters that includes a thesis component? My Masters does include courses in research methodologies, if that makes a difference...",9,24,3.4041961377058865,GradSchool
"Potentially moving far away from grad school, need some positivity!","Hi  reddit! 

I'm planning to move to Canada from Australia sometime next year, and boy am I scared, but also excited. I basically haven't moved out of my home at all here or been away from my family or friends for more than two weeks, so this is a huge leap for me. But I feel that doing research at this particular uni is right for me, and I have to take this opportunity or I might not get an opportunity like this again. Seen a lot of shit recently online about how depressing grad-school can be and as someone with depression, I feel like moving  so far away from home could really exacerbate it. But I'm still trying to be really positive about it, because I think it'll be good for me, and I guess I'm just asking for some kind of re-assurance by people who have gone through this! 

Tl;dr - I just want to know if anyone has had the experience of moving half way around the world for their grad school, and what the positives of their experience were, and good ways to cope with loneliness? I just kind of need re-assurance that it will get easier in the long run.",9,12,3.589670674742924,GradSchool
Which grad program should I choose and where can I find a professional to answer my question?,"Hi guys! I have a BS degree in political science from an American university. I am applying grad school the coming fall. One thing has been bothering me is choosing the right program. I have a strong interest and background in Chinese politics. Should I go for Political Science again or aim for international relations?
For the foreseeable future I am not going to get a PhD degree. I really want to work for those three letters agencies after graduating , CIA,etc. but I am still struggling with getting a green card, which means public sector jobs are off limits for me now. Which program is better for me in terms of getting me employed before I can try in the CIA.",2,0,3.6020780821503315,GradSchool
Creating a new social life,"I'm a philosophy grad student in northern Illinois, which a small school in the middle of farmlands. I'm enjoying it thus far, but feel like my social life has taken a hit. I came from a large school in undergrad and was in a fraternity. I had many friends and went out all the time. I also learned how to talk, meaning guide conversations and break the ice with new individuals. I love that part of me because I see myself as a ppl's person, and I don't want to lose that. I'm given quite a bit of work each week, which I really don't mind, but I want my free time to be spent with ppl, not sitting inside watching movies. Idk, it's like I just forgot how I started in undergrad. I went from not knowing anyone there to knowing almost everyone. I could go out alone with confidence that I'd bump into someone I knew and had a night with them. Has anyone else felt like this in their grad program? The ppl in my cohort are cool, but a lot of them are introverts and don't like to go out often,so I'm really on my own trying to figure this out. Any advice would be appreciated!",7,6,3.641719285854035,GradSchool
Getting started on the statement of purpose,"I thought I’d have more time to go over this essay but one of the professors who has offered to recommend me wants to see a draft of it next week. I’ve been writing essays for the last five years, and for some reason this small little essay (500 words) seems to be a daunting task. How did you guys get it done and did you feel confident about it? How much does the SOP matter to graduate admissions? I don’t have experience in my field, except for academic so do I just write about projects and presentations done in class? This is for a psychology MS program. Any advice? Thank you everyone.",3,1,3.755145211779961,GradSchool
Is it bad to submit a literature review as a writing sample for a PhD program?,"I have a literature review that I believe is strong, and I’m wondering if it would be better to submit that or a portion of my thesis. My thesis is past the page limit obviously, so it’d only be a portion. I’m not sure which is a stronger option.",12,3,3.853929934002183,GradSchool
About to Graduate but Haven’t Found Your Path Yet? Don’t Worry.,"Of course, you don’t know what you want to do — you haven’t even lived yet!

Don’t jump on the first boat that somebody puts in front of you.

Nothing will ruin your 20s and 30s more than thinking constantly you should have everything together.

Life is about exploration.

And if you are 20 something, you just started to live.

Most likely you have another 60! or 70! years of execution ahead of you. 

[https://medium.com/@michael.burkhardt/about-to-graduate-but-havent-found-your-path-yet-don-t-worry-ce225df56ed2](https://medium.com/@michael.burkhardt/about-to-graduate-but-havent-found-your-path-yet-don-t-worry-ce225df56ed2)",2,6,3.9660711377058866,GradSchool
VERY overwhelmed. Applying to grad school after graduating undergrad 5 years ago. HELP PLEASE!,"
Hello!

I apologize if this comes off scatter brained, I will try to make bullet points to get everything across in a more concise fashion. So I graduated with a BS in Psychology in 2014. Since then I haven’t really done anything with it, at all. I got my CNA which is also in the helping relations but did not pursue a job with that. I’ve been bartending mostly. Honestly the debt was just overwhelming and I wasn’t sure exactly what career I wanted at the time, and so I didn’t want to get into more debt to not know what I’m ultimately trying to do as a career. Alas, it’s been five years... life got in the way. But things have calmed down and I’ve thought long and hard about pursuing a MS in counseling Psychology with hopes of becoming an LCPC.. SO Here are my issues:

I have zero relevant recommendations for letters. I emailed some professors from five years ago and told them my name and what classes I took with them but they probably won’t remember me. I also included that I’d like to meet up with them to help jog their memory, and also volunteered to assist in any way with any research they may be working on so that their recommendations could be more than generic.. is there anything else I can do?? Are non relevant work coworkers and supervisors something worth including?

Being as I have no relevant work experience, how in the hell do I create a CV or resume?? I can include my undergrad, my cna class, and that’s pretty much it...

I’m kind of feeling like I missed the boat here and graduate school is just too far out of reach, and I waited too long. I’m kind of heart broken because now I finally know what I want to do and am willing to work for it, but these technicalities are such an issue.

Any advice would be greatly appreciated.

Thank you!",5,0,3.9832123414095904,GradSchool
Mom doesn't care about my accomplishments,"So I'm a second year Genetics PhD student. Im about to go to my first grad school conference and I've been asked to give a talk on a paper I'm about to publish. It's a huge honor and I'm very excited to have my first talk so soon into my PhD, as well as to have a publication underway.  

So I called my mom and decided to tell her. We have a rocky relationship, but this is a big deal so I thought it would be nice to talk about. This was the conversation:

Me: Im giving a talk at the craniofacial genetics international meeting next week

Mom: about what?

Me: that paper I'm going to publish

Mom: why are you talking about craniofacial stuff?

Me: that's what my lab studies.... remember?

Mom: oh.... well anyways...

She proceeded to tell me about some party she went to.  I've been in this lab for a while now and I've talked about my research several times. She just doesn't listen or care. And that conversation just sucked.",18,15,3.9895086377058866,GradSchool
Advice/suggestions preparing for graduate study.,I will be starting my doctoral school in Astronomy coming January. I have a few months to kill/prepare for the new journey. Just need some advice or suggestions to keep in mind before starting. Sorry if my post does not belong here. Any general pointers or links to previous posts are also welcome. There have been many suggestions on how to get into doctoral schools but I see not much help once you get into them. I thought this post would help me and others in the same boat as well. Thank you folks.,2,1,4.0405503043725535,GradSchool
"Admitted a defeat, faced it head on, now I'm happy.","I'm a first year in my grad program, and I came in wide eyed and ready. I still feel that way mostly. I signed up for well above a full course load (I'm on an RA and my project isn't fully defined yet so not much research to be done just yet) and my advisor was like ""Are you sure? That's a whole lot."" I basically said ""I won't know what the limit is until I reach it."" Then a few days ago in lecture, we got into such complex math that was supposedly foundational to the science and I was overcome with dread, since this was supposed to be my ""bottom priority"" class. After a little soul searching, I admitted defeat, and since we're past the withdraw date, I thought I was stuck in there and I was a little sad. But luckily my instructor is letting me switch it to an ""audit"" type grade, and so it'll be on my transcript, I'll get the info I can glean, without having to worry about a terrible grade or complete understanding (still have to do all the work though). It was the right choice and I'm stoked I get to have the best of both worlds. Still, it is difficult to admit when you can't do it all in academia. But I'm learning, as so many people have told me, grad school is when your ""exceptional talent"" becomes the norm, and you don't get a cookie for every little success. Stay strong folks!",12,213,4.0820202117799615,GradSchool
"I have great GRE scores and a very strong undergraduate GPA, but very little research experience. Some graduate schools in my field say strong applicants will be admitted directly into a PhD program, but...","I am very interested in a career in research, and I have been following a lot of posts under ""Dr. Doctorate"" on Quora, which has also answered a lot of my questions about getting a PhD and grad school in general. 

I'll be applying to a few schools this year for Fall 2020 admission and I have most of the things I need to apply ready, including a great GPA and 90th percentile GRE scores in both Verbal and Quantitative. Now I've been trying to study the publications of some professors whose research topics sound exciting and interesting to me, but I feel like I've hit a wall. In a lot of them I get a vague sense of what's going on, but otherwise I'm completely lost. Confused. I have no idea what the hell they're talking about. I've read that ""research"" graduate degrees (MS and PhD as opposed to M.Eng.) place more emphasis on research itself and much less on coursework and studying. So I'm starting to wonder if I'm really ready. Some of the schools I wish to apply to state that ""strong"" applicants will be admitted directly into the PhD program (where, from what I've read online, even less emphasis is put on coursework) and I'm wondering how I'm going to be able to learn everything I need to so I can even come up with a good dissertation topic. I've read the horror stories about people dragging their PhD's on for as long as 8 years and I don't want to end up like that.

&#x200B;

Do I have wrong information about what graduate school entails or is my inability to understand the content of these publications and indicator that I need more time to ""prepare"" before applying?

Edit: my field is Civil Engineering, I want a graduate degree in Geotechnical Engineering, a subdivision of Civil Engineering, with research in Computational Mechanics",10,1,4.082436878446628,GradSchool
I had the most abysmal lecture today and now I'm doubting being here,"I had a nightmare a few months ago about my new programme, that I was sitting in a lecture and couldn't understand a word of it, and today that was realised.

My supervisor told me to sign up for the General Relativity (GR) course because it'd be ""fun"", and because I did well in GR during my masters I figured it'd be a nice refresher, although I don't have a pure math background and the maths department here is notorious. Start of the class was okay, the lecturer said he was going to be pretty 'applied' with the maths, and then suggested some textbooks but said one particular book was only for idiots.

But then the lecturer started right away with manifolds, which I've never seen before, and I didn't understand any of it. I can't even read my notes because I literally don't know what the symbols mean. I don't know what a ""set"" is, or ""smooth"" (I know the applied math basics of these two, but the language was completely unrecognizable in this lecture, so I guess I don’t know the pure math meaning of those words), or ""diffeomorphism"". It may as well be written in Mandarin Chinese. Heaps of other students asked questions during class and I didn't understand what they were asking. 

I went up to the lecturer after class to ask him for some advice to get up to speed. He looked at me like I'm stupid and then suggested I read the book that he'd said was for idiots. There were other pure math students there (the people who'd asked questions and pointed out mistakes during the lecture) who kinda snickered at me when I asked. 

This class is supposed to be for masters students, i.e. *below my level*, **and** I've technically done it before, and I still suck at it so bad that I can't even begin to engage with the material. 

I really don't know what I'm doing here. I want to mention it to my supervisor and get his advice, but I haven't been here very long and I don't want to be a whiny baby or a hassle for people so early on.",43,59,4.141522526594775,GradSchool
"Advisor MIA, little to no faculty support. Looking for advice. What can I do to cover myself?","I'm a PhD student (turned MS, due to this situation) in my third year and my advisor called me last month to inform me that they're leaving the university. They did not offer to take me on as a student at their next position. They were fairly non-committal when answering my questions about whether or not they would be present at my thesis defense, or available to help me with my thesis research. We ended the call by setting a date to go over some data extraction the following week. When that date came around, they didn't show. They didn't respond to my messages. After a couple weeks, I contacted the department head and let them know. They acknowledged how ""challenging,"" this situation is and offered to serve as my interim advisor. 

Now the department head is not responding to my messages about meeting to review my IRB application (need their signature) and thesis proposal. To make things even more challenging, I am completing an internship in another state, so I can't bang on doors and demand attention. I'm hoping to graduate this spring, but things are looking more dire as my timeline gets shorter. Only one of my committee members has been helpful and communicative, and they have more students than anyone else on my committee.

I just have a bad feeling about this and don't want to be screwed over after all my hard work. Has anyone been in a similar situation? How did you handle it?",3,1,4.1914299340021826,GradSchool
[Advice] Managing Expectations with Research?,"Hey all,

I'm doing some work for my first papers in graduate school (Master's Poli Sci program) and I'm wondering how you all conduct your research for short-medium length papers (7-20 pages). I'm putting together my sources and having a total heart attack because the suggested number of sources is 10-15 and each individual source is anywhere between 40 and 300 pages. 

For those of you more used to this sort of thing, is it generally the case that you read the entirety of a source every single time? I've had quite the time keeping up with the workload thus far and cannot imagine adding hundreds of pages of additional reading + the writing process into the mix. 

I don't mean to imply that I don't think it's worth it to read things in its entirety - just that I am not sure exactly how much time I should be spending on these parts of the writing process.

Thanks for the support!",5,1,4.208304934002183,GradSchool
Asking for advice for taking up a major,I'm a environment science student and I'm planning to join a grad school in 2020 taking up Atmospheric and marine science as major. But I'm not sure if me not having a physical background will affect my chances of getting accepted into a grad school. I have contacted couple of uni I'm interested in  but even they seem unsure.I would appreciate any kind of feedback or advice!,0,0,4.217494748816998,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Have a tear-free week?

* Do well on phone interviews?

* Survive your first time teaching?

* Attend GHC?

* Give an excellent presentation to people who fund your work?

* Earn As on your first round of exams?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",47,7,4.273883637705887,GradSchool
Help with a figure?,"If I don't understand a figure, is it a good idea to email the authors asking for clarification?

I presented a paper I read and did pretty well, but a post-doc had a question about a graph that I couldn't answer, and my PI (who had the same question) said I could follow up with them in a few days after I've looked at it again. I've looked at it over and over again now and I still don't quite understand, it's an issue with wording on a graph. Can I email the authors for a direct-from-the-source response? Or is that not a great idea? I know I could ask other students but idk if it would be better to ask the people actually made the graph. 

Sorry this might sound like a dumb question, but I'm a first year PhD student so everything is brand new to me!",1,2,4.32784197103922,GradSchool
defended 4 months ago... still waiting on data to complete thesis,"Ok. here's the situation: 

I defended my masters thesis about 4 months ago and passed conditionally with some revisions... part of which is dependent on the creation and application of a correction factor for my data that is completely out of my hands (to be developed by one of my committee members). And I still don't have that correction factor. I've heard a few times from said committee member during this time and they've said that they're ""working on it.""

I am feeling super frustrated because there's literally no way I could have done anything different and now my thesis has been delayed by (so far) 4 months and I still have no concrete answer as to a timeline or anything. This is also a subject that I don't have a ton of technical knowledge on the development of (my work is on the application side) so it's not like I could develop the correction factor by myself (besides which it would be outside the scope of my project). I do also have a second chapter of my thesis which is not dependent on this project that is pretty much finished and I think it could stand alone as a thesis. 

I just don't know what to do at this point. I really just want to be done with this thing and move on with my life. The longer this drags on, the more motivation I lose. I don't know if this sort of hold-up is common? Has anyone else experienced something like this? And if so, how did you resolve it? Or am I being unreasonably frustrated here? 

TLDR: defended thesis 4 months ago, passed conditionally on data that is out of my hands and I still don't have. am very frustrated.",2,3,4.346916045113295,GradSchool
Explaining this world to your family,"I know I’m not the first one to post this but I just need somewhere to vent about this. 
My parents have never really understood this PhD thing. Over the years I’ve learned to ignore their condescension and their “what do you mean you’re not finished yet, what are you going to do?” Comments. I’ve explained how a STEM PhD works to them until I’m blue in the face and they just still don’t understand it. 

This also comes with some background of a very typical emotional manipulation on their part, always expecting me to be the best and if I did anything less than what they expected as perfection, they let me know what a disappointment I was. 
It wasn’t malicious, it was just that they learned early on I could be manipulated emotionally, and my sibling couldn’t care less. So it was all focused on me. As you can imagine, this upbringing manifested some serious perfectionism in my adult life, and people pleasing. I’ve worked hard to not need constant positive affirmation to feel successful (grad school is NOT the place for that!).

Anyway, I’ve just defended (yay!) and even though I’m way ahead of the average completion time for my program, my parents are still insistent I wasn’t fast enough and give me a hard time about looking for postdocs and career choices. I’m a very happily married adult, I’ve been independent from them for years and have tried to put an emotional distance between myself and them for these reasons, but my goodness. Are they ever going to realize that I’m capable of making these decisions for my life in a field they know nothing about? Can they just shut it and be happy for me for once?

Like I said, I’ve learned to shut a lot of it out. But I was hoping for a bit more support and less condescension once I finished my freaking PhD. 

Vent over, and I’m moving on. Thanks for reading :)",14,35,4.34715910066885,GradSchool
I’m applying to grad school for Fall 2020 and I’ve been out of college for 3 years. Who should I ask for letters of recommendation?,I wasn’t planning on going to grad school while I was in undergrad so I didn’t really bother making connections with any of my professors. Can I still ask ones I had a few classes with for letters of recommendation even if they might not remember me? Also is it unprofessional to ask my current boss for a letter of recommendation if the degree I’m seeking has nothing to do with my current position and will ultimately help me get a new job? I’m not sure exactly what to do so any help is appreciated! Thanks :),29,72,4.421047989557739,GradSchool
How to connect with my mentor?,"I'm a new graduate student, and I recently met with a prof who's agreed to serve as somewhat of a mentor for me. She's not in any way connected to my lab/supervisor/project, I think this is more of a personal mentorship situation.

She was very kind and suggested that I stop by her office any time to chat, but I'm kind of awkward, so I don't really know how to do that. Does anyone have suggestions of things that I can talk to her about, or ask her about, or anything for me to say when I stop by? 

In addition, or maybe more importantly, it's coming up with the first initial ""reason"" to go by her office that I'm also struggling with. I feel like she'll think I'm dumb if I just go by to say hi... she's busy as well so I don't want her to think that I'm wasting her time. I feel like if I go over, I need to have a good opener.

I'm a little awkward and have always had trouble talking to my profs about personal things, but I'm really excited to have someone who's interested in taking me under their wing, and want this to go well. Thanks!",3,1,4.756429934002183,GradSchool
I feel kind of dumb and inferior when applying to grad school,"I want to get a master's in science in computer science. I see the sort of research that the professors I'm interested in are doing and I feel like I don't know anything.

I don't know if this is normal, I know stuff but I'm not exactly a highly accomplished scientist.

I want to go to gradschool because I want to expand my knowledge, but sometimes I wonder if they're expecting a genius or something to show up.",6,2,4.775168359928109,GradSchool
Which comes first: the figure or the text? (rant),"My PI and I are writing a review paper, and he has been nagging me to produce a figure, insisting that without a figure, we can't publish the review. I understand his point, but I told him that I think it's easier to think of a figure when we actually have the first draft. But he keeps on insisting that the figure is more important, and we can easily write the text when there's a figure. (BUT HOW CAN WE MAKE A FIGURE WHEN WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S IN THE TEXT???)

I've started writing on my own, just so I have something to work with and finally make a figure, but he nags about the figure every single freaking day. A postdoc in our lab also asked me whether I already made a figure or not without asking about the text. Now I'm wondering if my way (text before figure) is the strange one? Or is it just my lab that has strange writing techniques????",5,1,4.850006322891072,GradSchool
NSF GRFP and pending publications,"Hi all!

I’m applying to nsf GRFP (like everyone else) as a PhD student (option 3). I finished my masters as part of a dual bs/ms program and applied last year. One of the comments my reviewers all had was that I didn’t have publications as a masters student. Well, by the end of the school year I published my first conference paper, but I didn’t include it as pending in my application. 

This year I’m submitting three conference papers around the same time as the application is due, and I was wondering if I should include that in my essays? It’s work I’ve done and actual progress I’ve made, but I don’t want the whole waiting for the conference game to be what hurts me in the end. All I’d say is “this work has been submitted to xxx conference 2020”.",3,1,4.924809563631812,GradSchool
Informational interview,"Hi everyone,

I'm doing an informational interview with one of my advisor's colleagues tomorrow. This individual does research in an industry setting. I've drafted some questions to ask such as why did you choose industry vs. academia? What does a typical day look like for you? Do you find there's room to learn new skills with in your job title? Do you spend more time at the bench or doing administrative work? What do you enjoy most and least about your job? Etc.

Any suggestions on important questions I should ask? I want to make the most out of this opportunity.

Thank you!",1,2,4.938953082150331,GradSchool
I introduced one of my heroes today!,"My PI has his postdocs do the intros in his vaccines course- which is pretty famous- today I introduced Paul Offit, and then Paul Offit introduced Stanley Plotkin! 

Highlight of my career most likely!

PS, this is only need for immunology nerds but I had to post somewhere!",1,5,4.940608174742923,GradSchool
Should I get a PHD/PsyD,"I want to be a therapist, that's been my goal for years. I would also like to teach but always figured a community college would be a good fit. 

After applying to my dream school, psyd program that I could not  afford, I decided to get my masters. 
Now I am thinking that I would like to tech grad school, but still be a therapist. I am not sure if you can own and run a private practice (what I truly want to do) while also teaching?

I am not sure if I should stay in school for the doctorate or start working/building a case load.

I would love to hear advice or what did/didnt work for you 

Thank you",12,2,4.940932248816998,GradSchool
Whats the best way of finding a professor who is researching or interested in the same topic you are?,,3,1,4.954797989557738,GradSchool
How to deal with friends who don’t understand how busy you are?,"Hi everyone, I’m handing in my thesis at the beginning on December and because of that everything is a bit full on for me trying to balance  work and study. 

In the months leading up to my submission I know it’s going to be quite intense for me and I won’t have time to be as social. A few of my friends who aren’t postgrad and are working full time are getting annoyed at me for not replying to messages instantly or being a constant therapist to their issues (when they have no idea what I’m going through rn) 

How do you kind of tell people you are busy and under the pump if they haven’t experienced it before and don’t understand how hectic it is?",6,2,4.9894854895577385,GradSchool
Was just asked to be on the admissions committee for my own department!,"The director said that my experience with science fiction and time spent with the campus (did both undergrad and now grad here) would make me good addition to the committee and helping determine applicants. 

How excited should I be for this? Should I be excited?",6,19,5.009126693261442,GradSchool
Just got accepted at KAUST for an internship (VSRP program) for 3 months!!,"I'm a little nervous about doing an internship literally at the other side of the world but at the same time I'm really excited about what's coming, the many nationalities and cultures that co-habit the campus, state-of-the-art facilities, etc. Any of you guys have been to KAUST as an intern or as a grad student?",2,3,5.067078082150331,GradSchool
Cite.com Error Messages?,"Hey everyone,

I've been using Cite.com as my preferred method because I HAAAAAAAAAATE formatting Chicago. It's never given me any issues except the last week or so. It gives me a 403 message now if I try to log in/create a new account/use the ""contact us"" box.

I've used Chrome, Firefox, my phone, everything I can think of. Of course, I'm an idiot and don't download my biblio as I add things. Has anyone else had this issue? I REALLY don't want to have to create everything from scratch and try to remember what my footnotes mean. 

I know I can use the cite-as-you-write in Word/Endnote/Mendeley but, to be honest, I really prefer the site versus anything else. 

Anyone have any input?

Thanks so much!",0,1,5.124971600668849,GradSchool
Ubiquitous Abuse,"Everyone in my cohort has a story about some sort of abuse by a faculty member. I, personally, have several. The administration refuses to hold faculty members accountable for any of this behavior. There is a mental health crisis in the grad school community largely due to this. I have seen a bunch of these stories on this subreddit. What can we do? Has anyone successfully taken any action? How? I don't want this kind if thing to keep happening to people.",30,24,5.223189193261442,GradSchool
Latin Squares,"Ya'll know a source/material that explains Latin squares in ANOVA nicely?

I'm already using Montgomery 8th Edition.",2,2,5.254265582150331,GradSchool
Modern Experimental Design,"Hello everyone. A newbie master's degree student here. I don't know if this sub is the right place for it but i need to ask it anyway. I have to write a paper about ""Modern Experimental Design"" and it's difference from Experimental Design. I searched google scholar to scopus to emerald about it and nothing came out. I wonder is there anyone here can able to help me in terms of useful articles about it or info's or anything? Thanks.",1,1,5.269832711779961,GradSchool
How is life and study pressure like in grad school?,"I heard people say in grad school, you will have lots of time to do interns, TA or RA staff; but I also heard people say you barely get enough sleep, which one is true?
I will be majoring in international relations or political science,btw.",6,6,5.294797989557739,GradSchool
My abstract was accepted for poster presentation!,"This is my third one to date. Really quite excited. It's entitled:

""Treatment and Rehabilitation Challenges in a Person with Anterograde Amnesia Following TBI""

Woo!",19,284,5.311892896965146,GradSchool
Stanford Masters Degree in Computer Science (MSCS) Application Question - Financial Aid question,"Hey everyone! I'm currently applying to Stanford's Masters in CS program. On the official Stanford webpage, they state: ""The Computer Science Department does not offer financial support for MS students"". However, on the same webpage, they also state that limited CA/RA resources (tuition + stipend funding) are sometimes available to Master's students once matriculated.

On the application website, it asks the following required question:

""Are you applying for financial aid such as fellowships or assistantships from Stanford University (e.g., Departmental funding)? - Yes/No""

I'm not sure which one to pick right now. The reason being that I think picking ""Yes"" will significantly hurt my chances in admissions, since Stanford clearly states not to expect funding for MS students. However, I'm planning on working hard if I get in and secure CA/RA funding. If I check ""No"" on the app, I'm worried that I will be barred from ever applying for CA/RA funding, since the department can point to my application and say ""look here, you clearly said you're not applying for financial aid"".

What do you think? Am I overthinking this? Will checking Yes have a detrimental impact on my application? Thanks  
\-A stressed out applicant",0,0,5.341707711779961,GradSchool
Posting Papers online?,"Hello! This is my first post here. Hopefully, I'm not breaking any rules.  
I am so excited I found this group, as I am the only grad student in my department. It's rather lonely. I have no one except my professors to bounce ideas off of. They are great, but I'd like to have a community of grad students to talk to.   
I am doing my MA in History (focus in late Roman Republic/early Empire), planning to start my thesis next summer. I have written several research papers over the course of my classwork, and I'm wondering if anyone else has a blog or a webpage where they post papers they write? I'd like to be able to send a link to any friends or family who ask to read them, rather than having to attach multiple large files to emails every time someone asks. Does anyone else blog about grad school?   
Not that I think my work is all that and a bag of chips, but I'm a little concerned about someone stealing my papers. Is this a concern? Am I being silly? I'd love for other people to read my stuff, but I worry about putting things on the internet like that. Is it considered unprofessional?   
Any advice is appreciated! I'm so glad I found this community!",4,9,5.34289984140959,GradSchool
Apply now or wait?,"Hi I was hoping someone could help me with this unique situation. 

I am in my senior year. I’m getting my B.S in economics on May 15th. The application deadline for the grad school I wanna goto is June 1st. 

One of the requirements is I have all b’s in economics courses. I have one c+ that I’m retaking next semester (I would have done it this semester but it wasn’t available).

Can I apply and tell them I’m retaking the class next semester, or wait until I graduate to apply?

GPA 3.56
I have 2 good recommendations from the chair of the economics department and her associate. And 2 from my bosses. 
Have not taken GRE yet but will do so by December.

Any advice is appreciated",1,2,5.345017896965146,GradSchool
Relaxation tips while in the last push? I'm one stressed bean.,"Currently in the last push to get my masters. I am going part time to finish off one more class in the spring. I an applying to PhD programs, working, going to school, and trying to prep for my comps that I want to take in December. I'm well organized but I feel like I'm failing at everything and I just want things to work out.

Oh- I'm also taking the GRE on the 30th of this month. I'm a stressed bean. Any good relaxation tips beyond working out? I do that already. 

Thanks everyone. (Ps I'm a medieval historian)",6,2,5.443432248816998,GradSchool
Weak research questions when approaching professors for PhD programs,"I'm trying to focus in on a topic I'm interested in but not plugged into enough to come up with any questions that will ""wow"" potential professors I want to work with. I have some decent research topics that show I've done a fair amount of reading, but certainly not anything I'd want to commit to. 

Should I send in introductory emails to professors with sub-par questions, or really try to live and breathe these journal articles until I've got something good to approach professors with?",6,7,5.612934563631812,GradSchool
Blog during phd?,"Hi all! Thanks again for an awesome community!

I have a small dilemma, in which you might be able to give me some insight.

I have a webpage, a personal blog where I like to ""collect"" ideas, write blog posts for friends for discussions, and recommend books etc. I like to think of myself, a bit pretentiously, as a ""renaissance man"" (apologizing for the expression lol) because I'm deeply interested in a vast span of subjects, from mathematics, economics, finance, to philosophy and psychology. I'm also passionate about ""open source"", ""free software"", libertarianism, decentralization and enjoy reading books in the genre of anarcho capitalism (not that I believe that it's practically feasible).

I'm doing my PhD in financial economics, and I feel that the field is quite conservative. When I talk to people about philosophy they frown and tell me to keep away. I'm a bit afraid of the following things,  


* That people will find it unprofessional / silly.
* That my blog will prohibit me from getting work in the future.
* That the things I write today will be connected with me forever, poeple change all the time, and I change views weekly.

&#x200B;

I'm trying not to write things that are too controversial or anything like that, but I'm still abit worried about getting doxxed.

&#x200B;

What do you think? Thanks a lot! :)",5,2,5.633987804372554,GradSchool
How do you handle terrible undergrads?,"I’ve been losing some sleep over this. I teach a freshmen chemistry lab. This is my first real teaching position. I’ve had a ton of experience being in charge of post-lecture breakout sessions or assisting labs, so I thought I’d enjoy lecturing, and though I do enjoy it, I’m beginning to dislike freshmen.

Now of course, most of the students are doing just fine, some are even killing so hard that I blush just thinking about it. The problem is that there are some real incompetent students who will forget my instructions no matter how many times I repeat them or write them down. These are the same sorta students that I fear will be safety hazards to others in future labs. The sorta students that fail a quiz that I purposefully made easy. They bring the class down, and it’s making me worried.

I feel like I need to do something about it. I want to just privately sit each one of them down and have a talk. They should either drop the class before it’s too late, or get their act together. Or should I just leave them be?

What do you guys think? If I were to give them the talk, how could I navigate it?",10,18,5.670064193261442,GradSchool
"People who got into nationally ranked grad school computer science programs, what were your stats?","By stats I mean GPA, accomplishments, GRE, etc.

I would super appreciate any info/tips too. Thank you so much.",1,0,5.7258975265947765,GradSchool
How to stay focused during a 3 hour lecture?,"All my classes this year are 3 hours long, either in the morning or night and sometimes multiple classes in one day.

The profs give us a short break in between but once the class hits the halfway mark I become totally disengaged and distracted. I end up thinking about a million other things and making lists/doodling/ staring into space. I’ve pretty much stopped bringing my laptop to class because I can’t take notes without browsing the web lol. I am usually pretty interested in the material, try my best to do the readings beforehand and I want to listen but I find myself zoning out every class!

Any tips on how to stay focused and attentive in class this long? I’ve started drinking coffee to keep me awake, now I just need to stop getting distracted!",4,3,5.790145211779961,GradSchool
When should I go to grad school?,So I graduate from UNCW’s B.S. in Clinical Research program in May of 2020. I’m currently interning at a CRO and hope to get a job there when I graduate. I’m young and I know I want to eventually go to grad school but UNCW’s program requires two years of working experience. Can anyone give me advice on if I should apply now and get it over with before life takes off with marriage and children or should I wait and get the two years of experience? What do you guys think about tuition reimbursement? I’m really young (21) so I don’t know anything about benefits like that. I just feel lost. Any advice is welcome,0,1,5.890133637705887,GradSchool
Is it appropriate to text or message advisor on FB if he doesn't respond to emails?,"My advisor is in another country for the year. I have been e-mailing him the last couple weeks with no luck; he sent one e-mail to me but never responded to my own. I have a deadline for something coming up and need his letter of permission, but haven't heard back. I also have fellowship letters of recommendation coming up soon and am afraid of him not getting them in on time.

I do have him on fb though and also have his mobile, though I'm not 100% sure it will work in another country. Can I politely ask him to check his e-mails from me since I have a deadline nearing?

Am I overthinking this?",5,3,5.90034197103922,GradSchool
Currently studying MS Psychology (Human Development) but thinking about getting a Graduate Certificate in Autism and Behavioral Science. Any thoughts?,"Hey there everyone. I'm currently in a MS Psych program in the Human Development track here in the Philippines. I have accomplished 21 units out of 42 already.

However, I'm thinking of getting a student permit in Canada next year to get a Graduate Certificate in Autism and Behavioral Science so I could get a post grad work visa after and hopefully a working visa so I could permanently stay there. 

Would this be a good move? I mean after getting the grad certificate I'll start saving up to continue my Master's degree over there but in Clinical Psychology. Also, I'm considering another program, Addiction Studies. What would be a good option between the two grad certificate programs like employment wise? What would give me more employment options? 

Will appreciate anyone who'll send their honest thoughts. Thank you!",4,1,5.936406785854035,GradSchool
Invitation to apply for a phD program - Is this common?,"Today I receive an email from USC molecular and computation biology dean, saying that the faculties 'were impressed by my academic accomplishments' and encouraged me to apply to their phD program. I am just wondering if graduate schools send out invitations like that regularly, and this is some form of advertising strategies and that they aren't really 'impressed with my accomplishments'. 

LOL now as I am typing this post i realized how naive I was to think that the graduate programs would actually invite people to apply because they are 'impressed' by them I felt great about myself seeing that email for a little bit lol.",3,3,5.94372160066885,GradSchool
"""Can we have a meeting"" emails are the ""please come to the principal's office"" intercom announcements of grad school",,1,36,6.02965910066885,GradSchool
Asking for advice - should I do a phd ?,"I'm currently at a crossroad.

I completed my masters degree while working as a full time teacher in college. My masters is in teaching sciences even so I'm a physicist. 

My director is retiring this winter. During the last year, he told me many time I had what it takes to go far in the research field. I was flattered, but thought he was saying that just to be encouraging. He told me that I was onto something that could lead to a really interesting PHD. My subject is so new that he thinks I could be a pionneer and a true reference for years to come.

I like this idea. I like my subject and I would like to discover more about it. Being an ambitious person, I like the idea of being a ''pionneer'' but it may just been a gimmick my supervisor told me to enroll me somewhere else.

Now, I can't quit my job for the PHD. My SO and I have to pay for the house and it would not be possible to work on my PHD for free. If I want to pursue, it would be part time, as I did for my masters. I don't know how big the work load is for a PHD compared to a masters on the same subject. 

All I know is that it would mean a lot of work on the weekends and all my summers for the next 3 to 5 years (or more?). I was kinda happy with the idea to be done with that after my masters. I felt I havn't been able to have some peace of mind for a while. 

I feel I don't have enough info to make a decision and I'm looking for some input from outside my own circles. 


Additionnal info : I'm a woman, fencesitter leaning toward childfree. I first started my masters to be better at teaching and to get a raise at my job. I just turned 30.",6,1,6.039832711779961,GradSchool
Applying for PoliSci PhD Programs - but Black Spot in academic record?,"Hi all, I've seen a few posts along these lines in my searches and I hope I'm not breaking any rules by asking this question.

I'm being encouraged by faculty at my school to look into heading straight into a PhD from my Bachelor's. I'm equally terrified and excited at the prospect, and have dived deep into researching my next steps.

My record so far is pretty decent - I'll finish school with a 3.85+ GPA, some nice volunteer and public posts I can add to my resume, and I feel confident in my GRE scores (which I have not received yet). 

However, at the very beginning of my college career, I had a rough academic year/career change/nervous breakdown that resulted in my being dropped from a top 50 university. Despite my wishes to erase that year from history, I know I'll have to submit that transcript alongside my applications.

Frankly, how badly will this reflect if my record afterwards is otherwise spotless? And if this does tank my chances at getting into a recognized program, please offer any recommendations you have on mind.

Thanks in advance, everyone.",3,2,6.056892896965146,GradSchool
SUCCESSFULLY DEFENDED MY MS THESIS !!!!,Going back to sleep.,17,613,6.061395211779962,GradSchool
"If you moved for grad school, how long did it take to make a few friends in your new city?","I've been here for over a month and have only gotten to know one person enough to do things outside of class with. And even then, we've only met up a couple times.  Is it weird that its' taking me so long?
Edited to add details.",8,8,6.095052619187368,GradSchool
Don’t want to bug my recommenders,"Hi All -

I’ve finally finished applying for graduate school - application, resume, transcript, personal statement, portfolio and everything else.

I need two letters of recommendation - one did it almost instantly after I asked and the other has yet to do it. I asked her 3 weeks ago and she confirmed via text and email that she received the link where she’s supposed to submit.

She was my professor in undergraduate, ran the department and I worked as her assistant - she has a lot of connections in our field. Due to all of that, I really want this recommendation to be from her, otherwise I would’ve asked someone else by now.

My question is, can I send her a reminder about the recommendation? I don’t want to seem impatient but I also don’t know how long you should typically wait. Please let me know your thoughts!",5,3,6.1166035451132945,GradSchool
How did y'all learn stats? Looking for any useful textbooks or resources.,"I've taken a few stats classes in undergrad but they were my worst grads in school. I know at lot of people have a learn it as you need mentality for stats but I would really love to find a source that explains the math as well as the reasoning behind it. I've learned the math before but never the reasoning and I think that's the reason I haven't been able to retain it. Also the two stats profs ive had we're literaly less interesting then wet paint so I don't think that help either. Anywho, I know stats is super useful if you can learn it in biology so I really want to at least get a better grip on the basics. Thanks.",16,32,6.142541045113294,GradSchool
Will journal rejection damage reputation ?,"I recently got rejected from a top-rated journal. The result is a dismal 2-1 (2 decline 1 accept) so the editor took the simple decision of siding with the majority. Most of the comments are cordial and constructive though some of which may not be accurate due to potential mis-interpretation of my intent. 

This is my first rejection though the tone of decline is generally soft from reading the comments. The reviewers really focused on what can be improved and what else can be done instead of blatant discrediting the work.  My field is fairly niche so my guess is that every body knows every body. I wonder if the rejection will damage my or PI's reputation ..... i know it's a bit odd but it is the number one thing i am concerned about.....",5,2,6.143918359928109,GradSchool
Should I get a job as an English professor?,"Hello Univ. of Reddit people,

I am very curious about your opinions on whether someone in my position can or should try to become a college professor.

My grades in English & humanities during high school were very high. My IQ is about 130. GPA approx. 3.8. (Numbers fudged a little so no one can recognize me. Sorry, but this is the Internet.) I studied to become a Catholic priest for a time and was able to get on the honor roll at a very large university but was unable to handle both the university and the seminary life at once, especially as I had come from a lifestyle where I did most of my high school work almost like it was still the 1940s, typewriter and inkwell and everything. (I am something of a history buff.)

Anyway, I ended up leaving & was diagnosed as high-functioning autistic. It doesn't hurt. I only am sensitive to lights & sounds--the light I can handle by wearing glasses for it, and the sounds by not listening to new music & driving a fairly quiet old car without a big muffler and whatnot. So nothing obtrusive. Autism doesn't impede me; I'm not disabled. 

And I have since held two jobs, moved to Music City to write books, finished my first novel, gotten in touch with a publisher, and continued living a life of adventure--but I want intellectual fulfillment and would like to teach people. Yes, I'm too idealistic. Yes, I want to be able to inspire people to see beautiful things. It is a leftover from the old Aristotelian philosophy I picked up in seminary (and before then--I used to read Aquinas' *Summa Theologica* when I was sixteen.) Yes, it sounds like Robin Williams' *Dead Poets Society* but I don't care; that's a great movie. 

So should I try for a Ph.D. or not?

  
Also, I am a normal man who wants to marry, and would like to be able to support a wife and children in reasonable comfort (as in, she shall want for nothing.) Will I be too busy with debt?

How do I even do this?

&#x200B;

Thanks.",15,0,6.156117434002184,GradSchool
Close to tears?,"I am immensely proud of my lab- I am proud of my lab mates, I am proud of the professors whose lab I work for. I am thankful for the possibility to work within this lab- but I feel like such a f\*ckup! 

I've been troubleshooting PCR products since day one, nothing has come out right! I have no bands in my controls! The controls MUST have bands. I have more than 30 pages of just troubleshooting and I just, I just don't know what else I can be doing. Like I'm so close to tears and I've been staying late in the lab since 10 or 11 at night just to come back at like 10 am and just pray. I'm so close to crying.",6,2,6.171094285854035,GradSchool
Help with Mendeley desktop sync for mac,"Hey folks! Currently having a hard time getting my desktop Mendeley to sync with my online library. I have tried signing in and out of the desktop app but it does nothing! It isn't a one time issue either, it has literally never synced which is very frustrating!

&#x200B;

Any help would be much appreciated :D",0,1,6.274936878446628,GradSchool
Any counseling students or faculty who use LiveText? Am I missing something? There doesn't seem to be much reason to use it.,"My university uses both Canvas and LiveText for assignments. All assignments are turned in to Canvas and only some are turned in to LiveText. 

One of my department chairs said they just started using LiveText for CACREP accreditation assignments because of the TurnItIn integration it has, but our Canvas package has that same integration and is easier to use, for both faculty and students. 

LiveText is hot garbage and might be one of the most user unfriendly programs I've ever encountered.",2,2,6.306765582150331,GradSchool
Use of academic title in emails,"Generally, the first email that I send to a lecturer starts with ""Dear Professor A"" or ""Dear Dr. A"". Usually, lecturers answer in a formal way, so I used to keep it that way.

However, I had an answer today from a professor that started with my first name and he signed with his first name.
 
I read somewhere that people's signature usually reflects how they want to be called - e.g. if you sign first name + last name it is isially formal whereas if you sign with your firts name it is less. 

Just so you have more context, I asked that professor to be my mentor, and he agreed - where I am studying, it means that I will probably have to meet him once or twice throughout my master, but nothing more. Also, I never met him irl.

So, how do you think I should answer? Keep it very formal with ""Dear Professor A"" or something else? 

And more generally, what is your use of academic titles and how do you like that people use them? 

I personnaly would not care at all, but it is easier to say when you haven't any.

Edit: Just wonderign, is there something intermediate between ""Dear professor + surname"" and just the "" Dear first name""?",21,2,6.311129008076258,GradSchool
Doctorate in Applied Mathematics in United States Graduate schools,"Hello,

I intend to apply for a graduate program (fall 2020) in mathematics. I am currently pursuing my [M.Sc](https://M.Sc). from Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar( India). I had done a three months research internship at the University of Saskatchewan. My research interest is in Partial Differential Equations and Probability Theory. I am appearing for the GRE General Test in the first week of November. Due to some financial crunches, I wasn't able to apply for Subject GRE. I understand it is kind of weird but please try to understand my situation. It will be a great help if someone can suggest to me some good grad schools that take students without subject GRE. It will be a great help to me.",2,0,6.32971697103922,GradSchool
Grad school application help," I want to apply for grad school but I'm running into a big problem.

I want to apply to CS or software engineering masters.

I have a not so much relevant degree (MIS degree, 2 years of business classes and 1 year of IT classes).with a good GPA: Around 3.90/4.3

I also did CS undergrad studies before. (studied for 1.5 years before leaving) . I had horrible grades, failed multiple classes etc.And with all the classes they, ended up with a 1 year degree with like 2.3 GPA (might actually be lower than that)

So in my masters application should I even mention my CS degrees at all?

Long story short:The classes are very relevant since they are in CS, but the grades are horrible (2.3gpa). (excluding the failed classes that I did to get there)

I have non-relevant degree (MIS) with a good gpa (3.9gpa)

Should I only mention the MIS degree? or should I also mention the CS one? Really confused on what to do",4,0,6.335179934002183,GradSchool
Soon-to-be PhD dropout wondering if he should get his masters with or without a thesis,"I've already made plans to leave my PhD program in December after a year of research. My advisor has encouraged me to pursue a masters thesis, which she thinks will benefit my career later on. However, I'd have to work on this thesis remotely, I have no interest in returning to academia in the near future, and I'm not motivated by this area of research (part of the reason why I'm leaving in the first place). Also, prior to the PhD program, I had worked for three years in industry as an Engineer I.   


I'd appreciate some objective opinions y'all have about whether or not I should pursue a thesis. Why, or why would you not, pursue a thesis in these circumstances? Anybody here have a similar experience?",5,3,6.342251693261442,GradSchool
Worthwhile to negotiate graduate stipend?,"I'm currently a part time graduate student working full time with an engineering job, and I'm debating going full time for a PhD for various reasons. One of my professors offered me a research position out of the blue over the summer, and I've sat on the offer and am thinking about taking that for the spring semester. However, the stipend offer is a little bit below my expenses, so I'd want to negotiate it up to cover my expenses. Do you think it's even worthwhile to try that?

For reference, I've taken 5 graduate courses so far part-time and have 2 years of work experience in essentially the same field to what this professor does research in. I think a reason the professor offered this is because I have experience with a modeling software that he's implementing into his program. My logic is that since I have 5 courses done and have 2 years of work experience, I'm more like a 2nd year doctoral student than a 1st year doctoral student. I'm just not sure if that logic actually makes sense here.",7,1,6.399485489557738,GradSchool
How to find a grad school,"I'm just starting my search for graduate schools after taking the GRE, looking into Electrical/Systems Engineering with a focus in aerospace. I already work in an aerospace company on specialized test equipment, and have degrees in electrical and computer engineering and computer science. My practical skills are generally far above my peers and my co-workers comment on this. HOWEVER, the fun stops there. I am a crap test taker and for the life of me couldn't do better than a 155/158 verb/quant on the GRE after 6 months of fairly rigorous study. I just don't DO testing well. Looking into graduate schools, I don't know how to judge how ""good"" one is either, nor do I know exactly the focus I should be looking for to move forward as a systems engineer. Very top level, functional stuff like integration, harnessing, system schematic and diagramming + design, etc. Anyone have advice on where to look, or how to judge quality in schools for stuff like this? Thanks a ton!!!",2,0,6.705156785854035,GradSchool
Grad School PhD Prospects,"Hey everyone so mabye I'm just paranoid but im trying to gauge are my strength as a hopeful applicant and figure put my weaknesses. I intend to apply to a ph.d program after I graduate undergrad so I want to get your opinions on where it is I should improve to strengthen my application. I should note since I'm working on my studies and various extracurriculars alot of stuff is projecteted outcomes based on my current progress and with discussions with relevant people (professors, advisors, etc) so let's assume that all the stuff I'm working on will hopefully come to fruition.

I should mention that I am very interested in the origins of Life specifically I am very interested in deep time and the first cells.

.To start I would like to say that I messed up my sophomore year because I was very depressed, therefore my grades were really low, that is why I currently I am retaking a semester from my sophomore year in order to bring up my GPA. So assuming all goes well in the future let's assume I graduate with a 3.5-3.7

.I currently have about 4 years lab experience, I've worked over the summers and bits during the school year in labs on different projects since highschool.

.I'm currently working with a professor doing research, specifically I'm working under a master's student doing research in a related field, I should get my name on the master's students paper when it is published two months from now.

.I should also be able to present a portion of the paper (the part I'm working on) in a couple conferences if that helps.

.I'm also in talks with another professor about publishing some work I did a few years back. If all goes well I should have that done by the end of Junior year at the latest 
 
.I'm on my school student science council.

.My network consists of many different scientist (primarily withen biogeochem fields), which appear to be the most appropriate field for studying the origins of life (could be wrong).

These are the areas I'm currently working on. But I know that I could improve. What do you guys think I should do to further strengthen my resume and make me a competitive applicant?

Also two OPTIONAL (ANSWER NONE OF THEM OR ONE OF THEM OR BOTH, YOU READ THIS FAR SO DONT WORRY ABOUT IT) side questions, 

1) would one bad year ruin my chances of getting into really good programs (I'm kinda scared that one bad year will mess me up).

2) I really like Columbia as a school but it has recently come to my attention that grad school is more about the person and the research I want to do, so does anyone know any program that really would really focus on the origins of life. 

Finally and MOST IMPORTANTLY thank you. I know it was a wall of text but I really really appreciate you taking the time to read and it really means alot, even more so thank you if you reply and provide some advice. :D",1,0,6.789080396965146,GradSchool
How high should I keep my GPA for top engineering PhD programs?,"I'm currently a junior and I'm aiming for the likes of MIT/Caltech/Stanford/Berkeley. I'm an undergrad at one of these institutions, if that makes a difference.

This semester I sort of got myself into trouble taking elective classes that I wasn't prepared for (one of them is a math upper division weeder and the other one is a graduate class in my intended field of research).

I'm currently sitting at a 3.91, but I think I'll struggle to even pull a 3.5 this semester because of these two classes. The drop deadline has passed, and I can't take these classes pass/fail, so I was thinking of just gritting my teeth and grinding to get As at the expense of everything else I'm doing.

However, my research advisor told me that as long as I keep my STEM GPA above a 3.7, even the most picky faculty at these schools won't care, because my role is to do research and a 3.7 tells them that I won't have trouble passing quals/grad classes, which is sufficient. It's much more important to continue to do good research.

However, I have somewhat of a hard time buying this, because plenty of people have good GPAs and good research experiences, so why would people with a 3.8 and good research be accepted when you can find tons of people in the high 3.9's with good research?

Does anyone care to comment, maybe on the admissions process as a whole?",10,5,6.789161415483665,GradSchool
Do y’all ever feel super pretentious when talking about your research?,Or is that just me? I feel so insecure about coming off as too ambitious and pretentious that I end up not taking the leap of throwing ideas out there and making progress on my concepts and theory development. Is this a common feeling of feeling super pretentious?,36,225,6.832078082150331,GradSchool
Grad School Was A Huge Mistake,"I really don't know where else to say this. I wouldn't want anyone in my department to know because I am sure they would tell my advisor.

I am a Master's student and it is the biggest mistake I've made in my academic career. I feel betrayed by my department, and to a lesser extent my advisor. 

I am in an impossible position. I was accepted into a program a bit outside my expertise. I knew I would have to learn a very important technical skill to succeed, so I registered for a lower level class in it. I am one of two grad students in it. It cannot count towards my grad credits or program of study.

I took it as a lower level class (as opposed to a higher level independent study that would have counted) to avoid an extremely challenging project I simply do not have the background for. 

Well, the prof knows I am transitioning into the program from a slightly different field and today I was told I needed to do the project anyway. It's a huge part of my grade and I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing. The reason was essentially ""because you're a grad student you should do it anyway"".

I talked to the dept chair and was basically told it's out of his hands. I already did poorly on the first lab exam and I am about to get fucked on something worth even more of my grade. 

I am also carrying my group project because it's a bunch of undergrads who refuse to work. They shoved the entire thing on me.

I'm in another class I regret being in because my advisor asked me to take it. It's a very high level class requiring advanced technical knowledge. I don't have the background to be in it either and it's caused me as much stress as the other technical class.

There's next to no support system in the department and I can tell my mental health is in freefall.

I'm sorry if this isn't an appropriate post. I felt like I needed a safe space to vent and get some other perspectives.",6,7,6.853825767335516,GradSchool
Philosophy of social sciences 101 resource?,"Hello, first year PhD student here.

I am looking for an introductory book that could give me brief and understandable information on the main theories in social science research (post-structuralism, modernism, post-modernism, materialism, positivism, post-positivism, etc.). I'm coming across these words in my readings, and despite Googling, I still can't seem to wrap my head around those. And it annoys me that I don't understand the basics of these terms. I need to have like a 101 resource so I can just understand what the concept means in a nutshell.

any recommendations?",2,1,6.861047989557739,GradSchool
How do you overcome the feeling of not feeling good/smart enough?,"Hi all a little background, I’m finishing up my bachelors in math this December. I’ll be in an MS in Applied Math program starting in the spring. Lately as I’ve been finishing up my upper division courses I feel like I’m not smart enough to continue on. I still really enjoy what I do and I enjoy everything I’m learning. I don’t know if it’s normal to have this sinking feeling of not feeling good enough but if you’ve felt this way how did you overcome it?",9,18,6.863964656224405,GradSchool
Potential Advisors," I’m in geology/earth sciences. I have begun to email potential advisors about if they’re taking students in the fall of 2020. Those of you in the sciences (or anyone who went about your admissions process this way) how many advisors actually emailed you back? And those advisors/professors that did, how much do you think emailing them before your application actually helped? ",6,1,6.869948452520702,GradSchool
Giving up a full time job for grad school? Am I making the worst decision?,"I just graduated from undergrad in May. I decided not to apply to grad school because I had a bad senior thesis experience (long story) and was just feeling burnt out by school in general. I decided to take a year to just work and apply to master’s programs for the year after.

The job I took is with a non profit similar to the field I want to pursue in graduate school. The pay and benefits are great and the work is really rewarding but I don’t feel that same spark I did when I was studying what I actually want to do for the rest of my life. Theoretically I could work here forever, advance further up, etc. The idea of not going to grad school in the fall stresses me out as much as the thought of leaving this incredible opportunity and all the incentives that go with it.

Am I an idiot? My partner has been incredibly supportive and tells me that whatever decision I make he’ll back me up on. I know my parents will flip out if I throw away a good paying job for the stress and financial insecurity of graduate school, and I’m also freaking about that. I just need an honest unbiased opinion on this.",5,1,6.879589656224405,GradSchool
Are there options to “catch up” on prerequisite courses needed for a current 1st year PhD student?,"I’m writing this post in respect to my SO who is currently in their first semester of a PhD program in Finance. 

My SO was accepted into the program with the understanding that they did not have as robust of a mathematical background, specifically in advanced calculus. Upon starting the program, it became swiftly apparent that most of the courses build off of advanced calculus and therefore found themselves woefully incapable of doing most assignments. (I would argue this is an issue of undergraduate and MBA courses/programs in Finance being behind in being more quantitatively rigorous but that’s another discussion...)

My SO has talked to some professors and their advisor about how far behind they are in their calculus knowledge, and if they have any suggestions to help stay afloat. The advice hasn’t led to any real success so far. Some professors have downplayed SO’s concerns, with the advice that “all 1st years struggle” and “you’ll pick it up”. Another professor suggested that SO work with peers, but nobody has helped SO out despite a few requests for help on/working together assignments (which I totally get the peers not helping or collaborating on assignments, they have their own work to deal with and I am sure they don’t have the time/energy/desire to help out someone that is so far behind on math skill). SO’s advisor has pointed them to mental health services and urged them to see if they could stick it out. 

Understandably, my SO is incredibly frustrated and depressed about all of this. SO really doesn’t want to drop out of the program, and really loves many aspects of being in the program, but clearly doesn’t have the fundamentals to succeed at this time. My SO has even had a lot of good feedback and excitement from peers and professors about their ideas and critiques, and many think that SO would be successful when it comes to writing papers and a dissertation. So the issue isn’t really being a bad fit for a PhD program, just not prepared for one right now given their current knowledge base.

My question is, what are the options (if any) available to my SO to catch up? I have urged SO to try and be even more brutally honest with their advisor about their lack of calculus knowledge and it’s contribution to them falling behind/failure to complete assignments, as well as missing classes and making their depression so much worse. SO thinks it will expedite the process of getting kicked out of the program, to which I argued that they would get kicked out if they don’t say anything about it (and in a way that would be only more mentally debilitating). Can SO drop current courses and take the calculus courses they need to catch up? Are there tutors or other resources at the graduate school level that help with this situation? I get the impression from SO that their advisor and professors are fairly kind and want to see SO stay and succeed in the program, so at least that is positive....",9,4,6.966267896965146,GradSchool
"Should I continue on, withdraw, or take more time and switch advisors?","I'm at my limits with my current advisor (who is the head of our department.) Last semester I started burning out, but I was never comfortable expressing this. She will shame people in our lab for taking sick days and say things like ""I could have given \_\_\_\_ the job instead"" when she's unhappy with my work. Very little praise and lots of criticism to push us to do our best. But I don't work well like this. I saw a therapist and tried everything I could to change my own behavior to help the situation for months. And then I hit a wall of near total burnout (very little sleep and depressed) then came clean about wanting to withdraw. That's when she told me I was doing great and in the top 5% of students she's ever had after saying for months how I wasn't doing enough work. After seeing me cry, she offered me a ""break"" instead that ended up being doing 15hrs/week of work still including weekends for two weeks, on top of classes of course. Yep, still burnt out and unable to crank out work like I used to. So she gave me an ultimatum -- take time off now and sign a contract to make it up later, or withdraw completely. The downside of the break and return is that I have very little faith that I won't repeat this whole cycle again and feel even more frustrated when I return. There's a silent third option to take more time, find a new project, and an advisor who is more kind. I'm in my third semester of an MS program that will probably take me at least 5 semesters total, definitely more if I switch advisors and projects now.

Strangers on reddit...what would you do and why?",4,4,6.984416045113294,GradSchool
Should I actually expect a strong letter of recommendation?,"What does it mean when a professor says they will write you a strong letter of recommendation, but that the recommendation will not be in the very strongest category? Can I trust that the ""strong"" letter of recommendation will actually be strong?

I'm not in dire need for a recommendation from this professor, since I do have other professors that could write me good recs, but I thought this professor would be able to write me an especially strong letter, seeing that I've taken the most courses with this professor, am a student in the department, and that this professor is a senior/respected figure in the field. Should I move on from this professor and request letters from my other options?",3,0,7.024115119187368,GradSchool
I'm failing assignments so far in my first semester. I need advice on how to continue and finish.,"I'm an fellowship engineering master's student and am completely overwhelmed in my first semester. All of my classes are very dense in material and have overlapping deadlines for projects and homework. Three homework assignments (let's say they reasonably take 1.5 weeks to do each) are due this week. I spent a lot of that time working on one and studying with hopes of beginning on the other two.

For the one I attempted, I failed the first homework and I'm looking at a failing grade for this project due this week. I have not started the other two assignments and I'm looking to spend the majority of the next 72 hours trying to make as much progress as possible.

I'm first-gen college grad. Only person in my family to go to grad school or do anything in STEM. What do people do as grad students when their back is against the wall like this? Do I tell my professors that I have to sacrifice quality on one assignment to work on another? It's really hard to take advantage of the resources I need because there's some other obligation spreading me too thin. Do I just drink more coffee and do the best I can?

I can't jeopardize my fellowship now. There has to be a way to make it through. Anything - please!",2,1,7.158663730298479,GradSchool
Are there any resources to help afford purchasing a new laptop?,"I have a friend who's a fellow graduate student, and the computer he's had for over five years has stopped working completely, but he doesn't have the money to spend a few hundred on a new one.


Are there any places he could turn to for help? I know there are student discounts available with various tech businesses, but it's usually something like 10% off purchases. Are there any sort of grants for necessary technology (we're in a programming-heavy math program, so a working laptop is pretty much mandatory), or student- focused charities, or anything else that could help cover some of the costs of a new purchase? Or a place where he could maybe get some old used laptop? I'd give him my old one, but it's in such bad shape it can't even go online anymore. He's also not a U.S. citizen, so I don't know if that could help in some way.",4,2,7.161777156224405,GradSchool
How do you get yourselves to write papers you don't care about?,"In undergrad you take plenty of courses that have nothing to do with nothing, but the workload is small/simple enough that doing the work is just a matter of powering through it and then forgetting about it. Grad school is all about tailoring your experiences to your interests, but sometimes that just....doesn't work.

I took a class because I thought it was going to relate to my research interests, but the more we get into it the more I'm struggling to remain interested, especially as my interests and my thesis have become more fleshed out. Now I'm having to write a final paper about Second Language Acquisition and some topic within it, and I can't find any motivation to research it, let alone write a whole, well thought out paper about it. 

How do you guys get yourselves to write about stuff you don't care about? Is it really the same as just powering through it, or is there some tricks you've picked up along the way?",6,1,7.184786415483664,GradSchool
"Farewell, asterisk!","Successfully defended my PhD, and that asterisk is gone!!!!",15,246,7.265110489557738,GradSchool
Any tips for an international student starting grad school soon?,,6,0,7.302089656224405,GradSchool
I feel like the multi-tasking is the worst part of grad school.,"Like trying to balance courses and TAing and research. And especially within research, there can be so much going when you're trying to finish writing up one experiment and starting data collection on another at the same time. And also the the little extra things like writing grant applications or preparing posters/slides for conferences. Like I feel like I wouldn't be feeling so stressed if I could just focus on one thing at a time. 

 I feel like my work in all areas is suffering because I'm stretched too thin. Like for example, this past week I had an exam to study for and a research report to submit to my advisor. And I feel like I did poorly on the exam and I know that report draft was garbage because there literally just was not time to give both things the attention they deserved. 

Anybody have any good advice for managing this?",39,233,7.378050304372554,GradSchool
Learning,What percentage does everyone learn from their adviser vs other group members? What do you think is the best ?,3,3,7.394832711779961,GradSchool
Pharmaceutical Sciences Master's: Resume relevant coursework?," What relevant coursework from my BSc. in Pharmacy can I include on my Resume for a MS in Pharmaceutical Sciences?

Example: Is ""Organic Chemistry Lab"" and the experiment techniques a valid addition to the resume?

Thanks for the help.",2,1,7.448513267335516,GradSchool
Today feels like the world (or just my life) is crashing down.,"We are currently at week 7, while I feel as though I’m a bit ahead in terms of readings.. I am struggling in terms of deadlines, and just feeling overwhelmed.
This week: I have to conduct interviews for research - while this might sound like an easy task, it has all of these working parts that I just can’t seem to fit together. 
1. the site - they’re extremely slow. Just in terms of everything. I had been waiting on clearance for my consent forms, and it took 3 weeks to get the OK. That finally comes in, but now the consent forms need to be completed (I have been politely noting the urgency of this). Maybe next week I will have a few in hand. The consent forms were actually due last week - but obviously I have to rely on the administration to set it in motion.

2. in terms of the research - (ethnography of a student) I’m just at a loss. I can do the research, and observe and take notes etc.. but I am really struggling when it comes to creating a quality interview. I know this sounds completely ridiculous, however we were given about 2 weeks to prepare, and offered no guidance in this department. I also need to note that I’ve never done any kind of research that included interviews. This is a completely new thing for me. I feel like it’s a bit too early to be conducting interviews?? I really have no idea.


3. Two weeks from today I have 2 heavily weighted assignments due, on top of interviewing and observing twice a week.. on top of what I refer to as “busy work” on top of 5 hours of class.  

Part of me knows that I will get through it somehow, and that I’m almost halfway to Christmas break, but right now I am just so overwhelmed. At a point last semester, I felt as though as long as I stayed on top of things, I’d be fine. I went into this semester with the same attitude, but I feel like it’s more than that. I feel like the vagueness of this final paper is really burning me out.

I am a _huge_ advocate of asking questions to professors for clarification, and I am not shy.. but I feel like this particular interview situation and the attitude of my site is just adding unnecessary stress. 

I actually don’t think I have a concrete question for anyone, I really just needed to tell someone. I will also gladly accept any interview/research advice.",2,7,7.463918359928109,GradSchool
CV help!,"Hi all,

I recently decided to try to get into a PhD program- probably Strategic or Mass Communications. That means that I need to create a CV; the problem is, I've never done that before. I was wondering if I could get some tips or feedback- I'd be willing to e-mail.

Schools I am considering: Syracuse, Columbia, University of Kentucky, and University of Colorado Boulder. Was considering Harvard's Marketing PhD, but I feel like that's too big of a reach and a waste of money.",4,4,7.696348915483664,GradSchool
How competitive it really is to get in a PhD program (STEM) for international students in Canada," Currently applying for PhD in STEM field for Canadian Universities. I have been in Canada for all my post-secondary degrees but still haven't got my permanent residence yet. I know Canadian Universities put a lot of strict quota on PhD admission of international students, especially STEM field. But just how competitive it is to get in for an international student? Specifically, I am looking for data such as 1 out X international students can possibly get into a PhD program. Or is there a strict upper cutoff for the number of international students can get in? Any info is appreciated! Thanks very much!",5,1,7.729057248816998,GradSchool
Very few MSc Programs for Microbio?,"Ive been trying to research Microbiology/Immunology Masters programs and Ive realized a ton of the universities I wanted to apply to only have a PhD track. Normally this wouldnt be an issue but I have been trying to avoid PhD programs because of the negative things Ive heard from my boss (I work in a lab as a tech) and others in terms of the culture, job prospects, etc. On top of that, I dont think I want to focus on research for my career. Why are there very little Masters programs dedicated to this field?",4,1,7.751071137705887,GradSchool
Please help! Searching for a thesis topic to FINALLY graduate.,"Years ago, I made the terrible decision to enter a graduate program in the humanities at a private university on the East Coast. While the school was perfectly fine, my program was a DISASTER. Only one person in my small cohort graduated with a thesis that was less than stellar (I'm talking typos on the first page bad) yet their thesis passed.

On the other hand, I (like other cohort members) have struggled to receive support from my department. I have never received constructive criticism, only advice to add completely unrelated crap to my thesis. Yet it's a command, not even a suggestion. Ar this point, I am tasked with the responsibility of  finding a  topic that will for once and for all get me the damn degree. So here is the criteria:

It needs to be related to food insecurity and involve African Americans. That is all. I proposed something with chronic disease and the aforementioned subjects and I was told it was ""a tall order"". Any help is greatly appreciated.  If this is relevant, I now live on the West Coast. I just need. a simple qualitative study that I can push on through. Seriously.",9,0,7.751302619187368,GradSchool
What food to bring with you to a conference?,"I'm going to my first conference, a 4-day conference (within my country, so no worries about food restrictions), and I'm a bit flummoxed as what to bring with me or get locally while I'm there! Lunch is covered by the conference, I'll pack some meal bars for breakfast, but what are some good options for dinners? Ideally, I wouldn't want to eat out every night I'm there. I'm thinking maybe buying some frozen microwavable dinners locally? What are your guys go-to's for short-term travel?",5,1,7.767899841409591,GradSchool
A year of work amounted to nothing,I’m starting my fourth year of my PhD and just found out the past year of experiments failed. My advisor says he is uncomfortable moving forward and is suggesting I take a master’s. I haven’t taken my prelims yet because I just found out I need another stats course so my committee decided I need to do that first. Prelims have to be taken a year before graduation so I’m looking at a long road ahead when I thought I was nearing the end. I don’t know what to do. My advisor tries to motivate me by being mean and it is wrecking me. I’m tempted to take the masters because this lab has been such a shit show and my advisor is cheap as fuck which I think is why my experiments have been failing. I can’t handle working more than 40 hours a week for my own sanity. Do I keep trying or take the masters? Any advice is greatly appreciated.,9,6,7.783085026594776,GradSchool
Feeling intimidated by Grad School,"Hi, I was recently accepted to a Masters program in Nuclear Engineering, however I've been doubting myself in this program. There's only 3 other students with me and each feels leagues ahead of me. They seem to be able to do things like the homework much better than I can. I tend to pick the problem, identify the key terms in them, and then do a lot of googling or reading the textbook until I can find something relatable. They seem to know how to do it right off the bat. The topic of what we do in free time also came up and I seem to have way more free time then them. They are always busy doing something or working while I have a lot of time on my hands. I do work with a professor, but am not currently engaged in a project. I'm mainly just helping with some lab maintenance stuff and getting a SOP written up for a glovebox. Does anyone have any advice on this? I have had confidence issues in the past, so its not surprising that they show up here, but as I stated before these fellow students seem leagues ahead of me in terms of work ethic and overall intelligence.",2,2,7.797552619187368,GradSchool
Can you do research experience in a major that is completely different to yours? Do graduate admissions care about this?,"I don't want to change my major because I like my major. But I like to delve into other subject of my interest. And I told myself If I'd ever wanted to study something in grad school, it'd be something different compared to my current major right now.",6,6,7.811105859928109,GradSchool
Thoughts? Advice Please! Supporting a Wife through her Doctoral Program..,"Hello everyone, I am seeking out some advice how I can support my wife through her doctoral program. She is currently in her third semester through her doctoral program and things haven’t been going well mentally for her. We moved 6 hours away from her family while we are near my family. Her major professor and pretty much the majority of the professors within the program had a mass exodus back in Spring. With a lot of her support system not nearby or have gone away, how else can I support her through her doctoral journey? She is in a strong cohort among other 6 doctoral scholars, but she’s losing her groove and I want to find a way to be a more supportive husband. 

How are you managing through your doctoral program? What other support systems do you seek out on campus if you find one? 

Thank you!",4,7,7.853964656224405,GradSchool
Questions for getting an MS,"Hello all. Am a 2nd year Electrical E student and doing well in school. I am starting to think about graduate school. I want to get a masters in another field like aerospace or engineering physics.  I am going to see my academic advisor next week but I feel like they always give me the worst answers.

Here are a few of my questions:

1.Is getting a masters in a different topic from your BS even a good idea?

2.Should I take the GRE this year or next year(JR year)? I get done all my math courses this spring.

3.Does internship help with getting scholarships and getting into graduate schools?

4.If I get an [engineering internship](https://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Electrical%20Engineering%20Co%20Op&rbc=LOCKHEED%20MARTIN%20CORPORATION&jcid=802e2be2e20a49cf&vjk=adfd267ef9779c0f)  should I pick that over my schools undergraduate research?

5. Should I pick an MS with a thesis option, MEng(1 year no thesis) ,or an MS without a thesis? In the end, I think I want to end up doing research for the government or some company. I don't think I would like working for Universities and I don't plan on getting a PHD.

Thank you.",1,0,7.8853998414095905,GradSchool
How to make time for mental health?,"Hello!

I'll try to be brief. Essentially, the mental health services at my university says my case is too serious for them to deal with and has referred me to a nearby therapist with stricter hours to the point that is very difficult for me to meet up with them more than once a week (if I'm lucky!) due to my work.

I have one appointment scheduled, but I'm in a very bad place mentally due to external factors, to the point where I'm not sure if weekly therapy isn't enough.

I'm considering online therapy, but I'm hesitant about the cost/insurance taken. (I get a student discount with my referral.)",6,3,8.006510952520701,GradSchool
"what do you do when you studied as much as you could, as effectively as you could, to a point of memorizing 4 quizlets and you still got a C on a test?","Now mind you these were not small quizlets, yesterday when I was studying with my group they actually told me go home because I already knew everything and it was annoying them. Yet I have again failed to perform adequately on an exam. I did not study myself into a stupor but I certainly put in the effort and employed the techniques that were advised to me by the counselor and professor. I am completely at a loss, the counselor that helps people develop their study techniques is also at a loss because according to her I did everything right to prepare. I made flashcards, I wrote things out, I discussed things with groups, I did all of the reading, I highlighted the important concepts, I memorized every emphasized point from the lecture.I come to you all an overly caffeinated and exhausted shell of a human being that is completely out of ideas. Even if I do outstanding on the final assignment I will still have a C in the class. I need to figure out something fast because the same thing is happening in other courses. Has anyone been in this position and what did you do to fix it?

It’s occupational therapy school, human movement, orthopedics, clinical process, how to analyze and apply research ( evidence based practice) and fundamentals are very heavy cold hard memorize. I understand the concept of getting lost in the forest but I gotta know each of the trees before I can understand the forest the way this curriculum is set up. In seeking advice with the second year students they all said they lived and breathed quizlet.",15,3,8.00983271177996,GradSchool
Felt like very stupid in front of my advisor,Missed some very obvious points in our meeting. Can't stop wondering how he thought about me…,4,0,8.038027156224405,GradSchool
I need a more efficient way to take notes,"Long story short, I handwrite all my notes on readings. I take extensive notes, which have been great in preparing me for discussions and papers (my professors have told me they appreciate how prepared I am), but it also means it takes me forever to get through readings

What are some ways I can streamline the notetaking process?",11,8,8.09446234140959,GradSchool
Can you apply for a grant for something you haven't yet been accepted to attend?,"There is a travel grant application deadline coming up soon that I really want to apply for. the problem is, I haven't actually been accepted to the conference I would use it for. I assume that I would be, but if I don't end up being accepted i'm unsure of what I will do with the money -- can I ask to use it for something else? I've missed a lot of grant opportunities because of deadlines like this.",2,2,8.11864058215033,GradSchool
Hit a dead end with the grad school decision and need help,"I really have no clue what to do or which jobs to apply for. I have a useless Digital Production (film) degree with a minor in Marketing that I have no idea what to do with it. You might think that I have a chance since my minor is Marketing, but really... I didn't learn shit with those 20 units worth of marketing classes. High demand skills like being able to operate a social media page and making content was not covered in my marketing minor... just a bunch of text book theories.

I have tried being a freelance editor and getting jobs in marketing but I have a skills gap. I lack high demand skills and feel like crap because I did not study anything that the market demands right now.

I am looking to do a master's degree to avoid looking for jobs and do something productive... possibly to gain more knowledge because I did not learn anything these 5 years of university. I did not learn about finance, social media, accounting, data analysis, etc. The thing is, I think a master's would help me expand my knowledge and I low key like studying. I want to do it in Spain for the price and because of the fact that I have been considering for years the expat lifestyle, so I might go away and never return. My dream has always been to study abroad and never got to do it through an exchange student program. A master's degree over there might give me the chance.

So, should I do a master's or keep looking for work in a job in a market that I do not have the skills to be in?

Pardon my bad English. I am from Puerto Rico.",1,1,8.15139521177996,GradSchool
"When you are going to go to Grad School in the future, does it really matter where you do your undergrad?","Due to some unfortunate circumstances, I am truly restricted to one university; unfortunately for that university, it is commonly met with some typical bashing when compared to other institutions; it means nothing to me, as I just want to receive my undergraduate education then head on to Grad School; my question is, can I use that as an argument? Can one truly say that it doesn't really matter where one finishes their undergrad, it's what one does during their undergrad that matters?",4,6,8.177089656224405,GradSchool
Last Call for Study on Supervision & Cultural Identities (Graduate Student Supervisees in Mental Health Fields)," Greetings!

This is a final call for participants for a dissertation study, I'm a doctoral candidate in Counseling Psychology at the University of Akron, investigating psychotherapy supervisees’ experiences of discussions related to cultural identities in supervision. This dissertation is supervised by Dr. Suzette Speight. Participation in this study should take approximately 5-25 minutes to complete. Participants will have the option to be entered into a raffle for one of six $25 gift cards.

You may participate in this study is you are:

(1.) a psychotherapy supervisee who is currently receiving routine individual supervision of psychotherapy (at least twice a month) **as part of graduate training**, and

(2.) you are 18 years of age or older.

To participate in this study, please use the link below:

[https://akron.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV\_1G0is7UvSqOn2Hr](https://akron.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1G0is7UvSqOn2Hr)

Please feel free to share this call for participants, or the survey link, with anyone in your professional network who may be eligible to participate! 

Thank you!",0,0,8.189751693261442,GradSchool
Academic references-curators?,"Looking for a bit of advice-

I have a BA and MA in my field and it has been five years since I graduated the MA. For those five years I have had research assistant/associate positions at prominent art museums. In that time I had very close working relationships with both my supervisors-one curator and one curator/chair. Both women are PhDs and well respected scholars in their field. I am now applying to PhD programs in Art History and had hoped to ask both of them to be my reference. I am closer with them than any of my former professors. Plus, my position was academically involved, so they can speak to my research, writing, speaking, etc. My third reference would one professor who I have maintained contact with throughout the years. 

Is this a bad idea- two curators and one professor? Is it better to stick to one curator and reach out to a second professor, who I have not been in touch with since graduation?

Thank you all in advance!",1,1,8.200642896965146,GradSchool
Bully Senior Colleagues,"Anyone else have had to deal with senior colleagues that bully you and just give you a hard time, even though you yourself have done nothing bad to them? Makes that lab environment very hostile and an unpleasant place to work.",6,3,8.202020211779962,GradSchool
Dealing with breakup during PhD,Boyfriend of 4+ years broke off the relationship unexpectedly (to me). I am currently a phd student but precandidacy. I haven't been able to do any of my work since the break up on thurs . I do have a counseling appointment but not for a few days. I feel like I can't do anything. I can't eat. I can't get out of my bed. He is fine and going on with life. Does anyone have any advice to get the work done? Feeling overwhelmed and terrible.,97,243,8.27489058215033,GradSchool
"Started grad school this year and did really bad on my first exams, need to rant.","I’m working full time and don’t plan to leave my company for another job after graduating. Going for a Stats Masters degree to get into Data Science. 

Anyway, my first stats exam was basically a C. I know I can do better which is why I’m a bit annoyed. How much should I honestly care about getting As in grad school in my situation? I was told it doesn’t matter as much given my situation and life/work experience. Obviously I don’t want to fail though so I have to work harder from here on out.",4,4,8.283710026594775,GradSchool
Dissertation/Thesis,"Hey guys! I'm planning to take up an MSc. Marketing next fall and as a part of the course I'll have to submit and defend my thesis/dissertation (not really sure what the difference is or if there even is one) and I was wondering if there are any sites that can give me access to such material so that I can read and familiarize myself with a existing matter on the spectrum, so that I will be better prepared to take it up when the time comes for me to do so.",1,0,8.314126693261443,GradSchool
"For those that were accepted to multiple PhD programs, chose one, but left... how has your career or the rest of your schooling turned out?","I was accepted to four PhD programs. Foolish, but I chose the one with the biggest school and department name recognition and ranking. Other labs I interviewed with fit me a bit better. My goal was industry and I hoped my training at the school and lab I chose would pop out better on a resume.

Anyways, the feeling I got from the initial interviews and interactions I had with the lab I was in ranged from so-so to good. The relationship between me and the PI soured over time for many reasons, he was pretty abusive and would often yell and gaslight me, my mental health deteriorated, I self-harmed after 10 years clean, and I left with a MS. 

I enrolled in the university's business school, and I am now a semester away from finishing up an MBA. People in my old program say I look very healthy now. I later learned that my old PI has a negative reputation with many people in the department. I often wonder what if I chose one of the other schools where I was accepted and how my schooling would turn out, but I know that's not healthy.

I worked for 5 years after my BS in low level analyst roles, when I graduate I hope to slot myself in higher level analyst roles.

For those who had a similar path, how has everything turned out?",3,10,8.365469285854035,GradSchool
"Book recommendations for motivation, self discipline and overall inspiration","Hi all, I'm starting my (hopefully) last year of grad school and I've completely lost the momentum. I think anxiety, fear and being overwhelmed with what's coming (alot going on this year) made my body just freeze and not want to do anything.

I have a long commute to the lab everyday and I want to use it to read some books that might help get me out of this and keep me motivated as I go on. I was looking for some related to willpower but couldn't find anything that seemed too relevant. But I guess anything from dealing with perfectionism to healthy habits should be relevant.

Any recommendations? What have you guys read that could be at all interesting?",12,8,8.39358271177996,GradSchool
6 THINGS YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE COMING TO STUDY TO THE UK!,,0,0,8.482089656224405,GradSchool
Is Word + Mendeley/Zotero Combination that bad? Why is LaTex better?,,0,0,8.484439193261442,GradSchool
Submitted my thesis!,"My thesis was due today, although I actually submitted it on Friday. It feels very weird, like an entire part of my life has vanished. I have another paper for another class due soon so I’m not in full relax/celebration mode. But regardless, I feel like I have this massive extra amount of space in my thoughts where I’d keep my endless “thesis to do list” running. 

I genuinely enjoyed my research and the writing and revising process. Granted, that’s a bit rose tinted since it’s over now and there were definitely stressful times. Odd that it’s now just finished. My dad always said “a good artist knows when to put the brush down.” And I guess my brush is down!",1,18,8.670098915483665,GradSchool
Could I get some tips on how to handle a brand new lab?,"I'm a master's student just starting out, so realistically I want to complete my project in 2 years. I'm super interested in starting a project with this really sweet relaxed advisor, however her lab is just coming up, literally there is currently me, a research assistant and a volunteer.

Do you have any tips on how to be a great asset to a brand new lab, pushing my own project forward and everything?",3,3,8.743872063631812,GradSchool
How do you cite professional short courses?,"I can't seem to find any clear guidelines, the only APA listing I could find was to potentially use guidelines put out by Douglas University.

Basically the components would be:

(Name of Short Course)

(Organizing Body and name of Conference)

(Date of Short Course)

(Presenter of Module)

(Title of Module)

I don't think there would be any additional relevant pieces. Has anyone had to do this? I assume it'd be similar to citing a conference poster or technical talk. 

Thanks",0,2,8.756626693261442,GradSchool
"Need advice: finishing next semester, but I no longer trust one of my co-advisers.","My PhD research is interdisciplinary: historical climatology. I have co-chairs, one from each side. My climatology advisor made it clear this week that he does not think I should be allowed to participate in the discussions of climatologists and meteorologists. He sees me as only being a historian. We’re five years and two publications into this, but he has refused to be a coauthor on the third paper. After this and some other conversations, I no longer trust him to give me a positive recommendation for the kind of jobs that I am starting to apply to. If he is not going to participate in the research or give me decent recommendations, there is no reason to continue under him, except that I am supposed to defend in the spring. Is it possible to replace a co chair in your last year? He is the only strictly climatologist in our department, and I would have to replace him with someone in our department. I do not want to drop him and not be able to find a replacement. I am also wary of asking around first, in case word gets back to him. Either way, I am going to have trouble finding enough recommendation letters to apply to jobs without him. I have not worked with much of anyone else, and had been counting on his letters.

Does anyone have any advice for this kind of situation?",0,3,8.797691508076257,GradSchool
"Life sucks, can you relate?","Living in a foreign country, but can't  go home due to political reasons (last time went home was 4 years ago),  don't wanna complain to parents so they don't worry about me

No significant other

Work/School sucks (PhD student with little progress)

Just watched the Joker movie, so I'm very depressed",25,132,8.805955396965146,GradSchool
Tips before applying to grad schools?,"Do you guys have any tips before applying to grad schools?

Any life tips/things that you wouldn't want to miss out on (like deadline ofc...) will be appreciated.

Thank you!",3,1,8.841372063631812,GradSchool
Is it possible to work with faculty members outside of your program?,"Apologies if this post belongs in grad admissions.

I am an international student from Australia interested in applying for biochemistry/structural biology programs. I have found an advisor at Cornell who works in structural biology that I would like to work with, but she is affiliated with the chemistry and biophysics programs, which I am probably not eligible for (no physics background). Due to prohibitive cost, I also cannot take the GRE before applications, and can only apply for GRE-optional programs - the biophysics program requires the GRE but not the biochemistry program. She is not listed as faculty for the biochemistry/structural biology program at the same university. Is it possible to join a program, then work with faculty that are not listed under your program if their work is very closely related to the program? Wondering if anyone here has had any similar experiences.",4,11,8.86664984140959,GradSchool
How do I get a,How do i get cool shoe,0,0,8.957448452520701,GradSchool
Does this sound like my department is scamming PhD fellows?,,16,20,9.085885952520702,GradSchool
Asking for recommendations for grad school should I give 5 day or 7 day notice,"I recently decided to apply for the social work masters program. Due to all these things coming up and finalizing my decision to apply really recently, I'm a bit worried. I already sent in my application, transcript and essays. The only thing that is left is the two recommendation letters. I'm nervous about asking my current 2 supervisors since I am still working there, and it's really hard to ask, especially since I'm out on the field a lot and barely see them. But I am going to send out an email tomorrow asking them, but the deadline is October 15th!

I feel bad that there is about a week left. I'm not sure if I should ask them to complete it by this Friday, giving them 5 days, or give them the weekend, (even though office is closed), and have them turn it in by Monday, (Oct 14), one day before the deadline. I worry it would be too close to the deadline and risky. But if I ask them to send it in by Friday, that seems too short.",13,1,9.097043359928108,GradSchool
Can I get into a top-tier school with a low GPA?,"I am applying to grad schools by the end of the semester and still narrowing down exactly which programs to apply to. I have been doing research for two years and my PI believes I have the aptitude for prestigious schools like Stanford or MIT. The thing is, I've been a terrible student during college and my GPA reflects that. I have a 2.9 at the moment and some schools mention you shouldn't even apply with a GPA under 3. My research will most likely be a big selling factor, I will have two first author and a number of second author papers as well as solid recommendation letters. Do you think I have any chance at getting into these schools or should I not even try?",12,1,9.102483174742924,GradSchool
Best Grad School for..,"Senior Undergrad studying Political Science with a minor in Computing and Information systems, I have an important question. 

What are the best programs (best as in highly rated and well-known institutions) for a Student that wants to go into Single Issue Lobbying.",0,0,9.122297989557739,GradSchool
Extremely anxious over upcoming comprehensive exams,"I'm on the final stretch of preparation for my comps next month and I am absolutely feeling the pressure for this huge exam. How have you dealt with your comps without breaking down and feeling like you'll fail? All the studying alone and information overload is driving me crazy, to say the very least. Just need to hear some words of assurance from anyone who's been through this. Hope you're all having a much better day.",3,6,9.187321137705887,GradSchool
Advice for the Process,"Hi, everybody! I’m a freshman physics major at a pretty well ranked college and have always dreamed of eventually getting my PhD in physics from one of my favorite universities. Anyways, I just finished my first wave of college midterms and everything went really well. Also, excitingly, there’s room for improvement on my behalf due to my first semester being highly difficult compared to my peers in the program, plus, and most importantly, the whole transitioning to college thing which has not by any means been easy. With that being said, I was worried about the academic transition to college but with hard work, the adjustment and process is really beginning to feel more natural and things are coming along well. However, as I continue to work hard for solid grades, what else should be done early in my college career to put me in the best position possible? I’ve begun to form relationships with my all my professors (especially calculus and physics, and actually know the one on a first name basis), but what else should be done? I’m planning on applying for research positions such as REU and MUSE (program at my school), but usually these opportunities only start for sophomores and onwards. In turn, what would you guys recommend to do at this early point to best build my application and set myself up for success in my field?",2,0,9.187830396965145,GradSchool
This question is probably way too vague but asking anyway,I’m sure this depends on the field and a lot of other things but I’m just generally curious right now. Would a master’s degree from Europe be respected in the US? For a US citizen who does a master’s abroad and then comes back home to find a job,1,0,9.219635952520703,GradSchool
"What exactly does ""securing the interest of a prospective advisor"" mean? Can I apply without a confirmation?","Some of the programs that I'm interested in say that I should secure the interest of a prospective advisor. I've sent plenty of emails and gotten *some* replies, however, I'd like to get my apps in. Can I just apply and list names of profs that I've been in some contact with?

I have not specifically gotten any confirmation from any prospective advisors, but I feel like it's important that I get my applications in. With how busy these folks are, I think that it's setting my hopes too high to expect them to reply to my emails.

Any advice or knowledge of this process is appreciated!",6,1,9.224890582150332,GradSchool
How not to get overwhelmed by supervisor's comments?,"I've been working on my dissertation for two years now and I find the hardest part is when I get feedback. My supervisor usually goes through my work and sends me the annotated document with all her comments/revisions. The problem I'm facing is that when it comes to going over them I get really overwhelmed and it usually takes me a while (days even a week) to sit down and get to my revisions. I'm not sure why I get so overwhelmed (perhaps my need for perfection), but my deadline is drawing near and it is hindering my progress. Any advice or tips?",4,14,9.258501693261442,GradSchool
(During PhD) Master's thesis and PhD dissertation,"Hi, I wasn't sure if this question would be better suited to r/GradSchool or r/gradadmissions so please forgive me if this is not the right place! (If that's the case I will delete this post if it does not get taken down.) I am looking at humanities PhD programs and a number of the programs involve obtaining a Master's while en route to the Doctorate; I'm wondering if it's possible to do a Master's thesis on a different topic and with a different advisor than the PhD dissertation, within the same program? I understand this may be too general, but I thought I might ask in case others have done this. Thank you!!",4,0,9.31471697103922,GradSchool
Does a PhD over-qualify you for certain job/career positions? Would also love to hear what your day-to-day life is like for anyone outside of academia.,"TLDR: Will a PhD over-qualify me for positions, and force me into managerial positions only? I essentially want to be a workhorse, and I absolutely love the bench, but I have no desire whatsoever to be a PI or a manager. I would love a job that is my passion but not my obsession--one that is an 8-5 with a reliable structure that lets me have a life outside of work. I would love to hear from about what is outside of academia, or really what's outside of being a PI. What's your daily life like? Thanks all!


*********


Hi all,

I am in my second year of my PhD program (pre-qual). Based on the fact that I don’t want to really manage or lead a team, and I certainly do not want my own lab, I am wondering if getting a PhD is really where I should be heading. When I joined my program, it was partly because I didn’t really know what else to do. I had heard that just having a BS in microbiology doesn’t get you very far, and that a Master’s is essentially equivalent to a BS with two years of work experience. It seemed to me at the time that a PhD was ""required"" to obtaining a stable job.


The thing is, however, that I absolutely know I do not want to stay in academia. I dislike the publish or perish attitude and the competitive, almost frantic nature to be always working and always at the absolute forefront of knowledge that academia is steeped in. It constantly makes me feel like I do not know enough and like I am never doing enough. I love being at the bench and I love doing data analysis and communicating with people. I think military type/biosecurity research is the coolest thing, as well as astromicrobiology and agricultural engineering/ag infectious disease research (not sure what to call this). I also think clinical science, like an MLS, or anything in industry, would be incredibly rewarding.
Based on these career paths, is the PhD really necessary for what I am aiming for, or will it over-qualify me for the types of jobs I would love to work? Would love to hear anyone's experiences/feedback.

 Thanks very much",57,133,9.356661415483664,GradSchool
I feel like I'm in the wrong field...,"Even at the start of my chemistry PhD I wanted to do physics. However I had no experience with physics and thought that doing physical chemistry would be a good way to bring me closer to the field I prefer. This turned out not to be the case at all.

I hate my research. I hate talking about my research. I hate every paper I read.

I'm a fourth year, and I can't leave because that would fuck over my professor who is coming up for tenure next year.",34,59,9.388837341409591,GradSchool
Question about research proposal for NSF GRFP- tying myself to a grant?,"Hi all, I have tried to find anything on this but have come up short. Briefly, I am proposing to capitalize on data collection currently underway for my NSF GRFP research proposal. I also specifically give the R01 number and PI. My advisor is actually the one who suggested this as it gives a full project under which mine can take place, but she doesn't have too much knowledge of the GRFP process, and I was wondering whether anyone had any insight on doing this.  Thanks in advance!",5,1,9.391001693261442,GradSchool
Trudeau Scholarship 2020,"Hello, anyone here applying for this year's edition ?",0,0,9.719300304372554,GradSchool
Passed my MSc viva yesterday!,"Submitted my dissertation last week and had the viva on it yesterday. I think it actually went pretty well, wasn't as bad as I was expecting! 

Now I'm done with uni, can't believe it. There's been a lot of times, especially recently with deadlines coming up, that I thought I wasn't going to be able to finish.",0,10,10.101233174742925,GradSchool
Does anyone have a rough estimate as to how long a Master’s thesis is supposed to be for science degrees?,Im in a Masters of Pharmacology program and I might do the optional second year where I pick the direction of research I conduct in our labs (its in a College of Medicine so funds are aplenty) but Im unsure as to how long a science Master’s thesis is supposed to be. Ive seen some humanities thesis be 100-150 pages,4,1,10.114497063631813,GradSchool
ABD! No revisions!,"Y’all! Passed my comps, and proposal defense, no revisions and a boss on my committee spent 10 minutes telling me the “compelling claims” and how he and I should go after the NSF DDRI! Lil intimidated, but onto the next stage! Grants and fieldwork! So happpyyyy!!!",3,40,10.174589656224406,GradSchool
Rant over Prof and Student.,"Basically a student asked for help from the prof for the assignment and asked why she got full marks. So now he noticed I accidentally missed a question and didn't give her 0 instead of full marks for a question (it was 3 marks out of 33).

Let me tell you if I was an undergrad and I got free marks, I'd be celebrating. It's almost like a dream come true. But some people have no common sense and would want to destroy their own grade.

So now this prof who I have been addressing ""Dr."" (who didn't bother correcting me) who doesn't even have a PhD deducted this dumb student's grade (who is ofc unhappy). I got BS lecture from the prof, and this asshole escalated something this small to the department and I got a 1-strike warning (3 means my funding is cut) for a silly mistake. 

Worst part is that I don't even know if it was truly I graded it since students deposit their assignment into the wrong marking box all the time and I was tired when listening to this prof so i just yes'd him today.

Now basically he wants me to check every single detail of a Math paper and point out every single tiny mistake. There are like over ten questions and over like 50 stacks of paper. He gives us 5 days (3 business days - Thurs, Friday and Monday. Btw it is due Monday lol) to grade them. For those who have not graded a math paper before, it isn't like marking an essay. 

Right now I am grading his papers which he made a blatant algebra mistake in the solutions (Mathematica agreed with me) and I just told hm about it and he hasn't emailed me back. I am really starting hate this place. My office is a dump (located outside the department) with no personal computer or anything and the city I live in just suck.

Thanks for reading my rant.",3,5,10.181892896965147,GradSchool
"Anybody starting grad school at a large, prestigious university after doing an undergrad at a small, unknown university?","The transition has been difficult, and although I'm making lots of friends, it's challenging to find a sense of community in such a large institution. I kind of only feel like a number, and it's a bit overwhelming. I really miss the small, tight-knit community at the small university where I did my undergrad. Maybe I just need to find a good place on campus to study and work and the rest will come? 

&#x200B;

It also doesn't help that I'm at a research tower associated with the hospital which a few blocks from campus.",9,24,10.216811878446627,GradSchool
One clinical evaluation away from being kicked out.,"Hi, I have crippling performance anxiety.  When I was in elementary/middle/high school, I would skip class every time there was a performance or presentation. When it was university, I dropped classes once I saw the word “presentation” on the syllabus.

Now I’m in grad school (masters of physical therapy), I have to do clinical evaluations 1-3 times a week. I know the material well. I keep up with the material and able to teach others. I practice a ton too. But when it comes to the day, I fuck up. I rush because I’m nervous and I miss little things. The profs also don’t like my demeanour. 

In my program, each student can redo one of this evaluations three times. I failed the same one twice, so I have one more final try before I get kicked out. I’m thinking of going to get some propranolol today from a walk in and to also just find a way to chill out. I’m always so stressed and nervous. 

Does anybody have any advice or any support?",5,11,10.269601230298479,GradSchool
Emailing faculties for Masters in Canada,"I'm looking to apply for a master's in mathematics in some Canadian universities this coming fall. Now, I saw that in the requirements, most of them require you to contact a faculty member in advance, get their approval (something like how they'd be able to supervise you for your studies) and then apply through the portal. 

Now, my question is- when is the good time to send emails to the faculties? The programs I'm looking for have deadlines in early February, mid to late january. Will now be a good time? 

I'd appreciate it if someone with experience doing this (with Canadian schools or anyone) could respond. 

Thank you.",5,1,10.357749378446629,GradSchool
The True Cost of a PhD: Giving Up a Family for Academia,,142,260,10.381754008076257,GradSchool
Anyone else feeling overwhelmed by the sheer volume of the knowledge one needs to cram into their skull?,I haven't worked actively on my thesis for a while. I am trying to complete all the assignments on time and fill in the gaps in my knowledge. I have read a significant number of papers and whatnot about my topic but everything is just so convoluted. I know about so many things about my topic but i have very little to show for it yet and so little time to do everything.,8,66,10.498490119187368,GradSchool
I passed my qualifying exam!,"Passed the whole thing! I just found out 6 weeks after submitting the final response. It’s been quite a suspenseful time. 

I’m so relieved! :D",13,178,10.678154471039221,GradSchool
Crafting a good statement of purpose for a master's degree application?,Does anyone have any tips on this? I'm kind of lost on where to start and I would very much like it if someone gave me some suggestions.,1,0,10.705700767335516,GradSchool
Should I take an extra year in bachelors to increase my chances of getting into a masters program?,"I want to get a masters in Clinical Psychology. I go to a state school and hope to get my masters there as well.

My academic record is pretty bad.

First, I dabbled in three different majors before taking a gap year and finally finding my calling in psychology. It's been six years (some of it part time, some of it gap year) since I started college and I have at least one year left on my bachelors.  I was really pressured to go directly to a 4 year college right out of high school when I had zero life experience and no idea what I wanted to do with my life, and this was the result.

I have 11 W's.  Basically I just didn't know how to college and for most of my college career I suffered from untreated generalized anxiety disorder and depression.  I'm doing much better now, and I have gotten all A's since I came back from my gap year. That's not really something you can put on a personal statement though.

My overall GPA is 2.99, and it will definitely be above 3.0 by the end of this semester.  My major GPA is 4.00 and I plan to keep it that way, or as close as I can possibly get it.

Honestly, if I were to look at my own transcript with fresh eyes, I would see someone who really struggled through school. 

Technically I have about one year left -- only 30 credit hours.  However if I retake three classes, I could bump my GPA by .20 (which is a lot compared to what getting all A's in those 30 credit hours I have left would get me.) Retaking those classes would require that I take at least another semester.

I'm also thinking of taking an entire extra year of classes because I have few upper-division classes in my major, despite being able to graduate because of the upper-division classes I've taken in other majors.  I don't know if it's a very good look to have so few actual classes in my major.

Another reason I'm considering taking an extra year is because I don't know if one year is enough time to really do meaningful research and a practicum and such.  I'm basically starting from scratch in January in that regard -- I haven't even joined the Psychology club yet because I've been going to school part time and working part time since I came back from my gap year.

All this considered though, I just don't know how hard it is to get into masters programs.  All anyone seems to ever talk about is PhD programs. Is it really going to make that much difference for me to take the extra year? Is it overkill and a waste of money? Or on the flip side, is it never going to be enough? I'm lost.",3,2,10.722969285854035,GradSchool
Master’s Funding?,"I’m looking to apply for a master’s soon, and this is probably all dependent on location, degree, grades etc. but how often are master’s funded? What has been everyone’s success with not taking on loans in grad school?",14,3,10.725330396965147,GradSchool
Anyone planning on doing more after a PhD?,"I’m pursuing a PhD in philosophy right now, and I’m absolutely in love with it in spite of the dark, difficult spaces. Has anyone gone on to pursue a graduate degree in a different field after a PhD? I would love to go on to study Classics (I’m doing Greek, Latin, and German alongside my philosophy courses), perhaps just an MA, but could imagine going on to history as well. Is that absurd? What’s the process like going from one grad program to another? Better or worse chances of being accepted, knowing you’ve proven yourself capable of graduate study already? 

Cheers",8,2,10.798791045113294,GradSchool
Frank discussion of MFA Design programs,"To help people decide where they would like to study: here is some first hand information gathered through the years on 2d design MFA programs in the US (in order of tuition expense, otherwise unscientific methods.) Would be cool if anyone wanted to add other MFA programs to the list, or debate the quality of the following notes:

**University of Texas School of Art, Austin**, MFA Design, Austin,  Texas. [https://designcreativetech.utexas.edu/mfa-design](https://designcreativetech.utexas.edu/mfa-design) Flagship state school means great resources and low tuition. Excellent student body, drawing particularly from the region. Excellent facilities, and accomplished international faculty, some educated at other prestigious schools such as RISD, U Penn, Glasgow School of Art, SAIC, and many from Texas. Very fun, big university campus in a great little city filled with fantastic food. Austin is pretty chill, but Texas is a very extreme state - the Saudi Arabia of the US - with very problematic politics, so if you are different in any way, not even Austin is safe. Weather is almost perfect, just a little too hot in summer, but moderate year around, low risk for extreme weather events. The location is is far from other centers, isolated, and dependent on regional industries, limited in culture generally. Cheap tuition (particularly if you live in Texas) with TA and scholarship possibilities. Currently: $12,000 for Texas residents and $22,957 for out-of-state students. 

**Virginia Commonwealth University School of Art**, MFA Design/Visual Communications, Richmond, Virginia. [https://arts.vcu.edu/graphicdesign/mfa/](https://arts.vcu.edu/graphicdesign/mfa/) Extraordinary art department housed in a mediocre public university in a somewhat reasonable little city in the northernmost deep south. This department has resources, connections, and a mildly radical reputation. This department is well-supported, well-funded and beloved, a particular achievement for a public school. Students are highly supported by nurturing faculty. Isolated little region, but not too far from DC. Richmond itself is building a Portland/Brooklyn-like reputation with craft stuff, etc, but still mostly a de-industrialized southern capital city with a middling quality of life overall. Scholarship and TA opportunities, and a reasonable tuition rate. Currently: Virginia residents: $12,134 out of state: $24,741

**Cranbrook School of Art**, MFA design. Birmingham, Michigan.  [https://cranbrookart.edu/departments/2d-design/](https://cranbrookart.edu/departments/2d-design/) Storied history of US modernism in gorgeous campus setting. Great studios, and fantastic facilities. Very highly motivated students who go on to professional activities. Strong visiting faculty, and committed department head. Student results are highly accomplished, but not as committed to innovative experiment compared to other top schools such as Yale, Werkplaats Typografie in NL.  Has been financially unstable for a few years, long-term faculty in other departments have been leaving. Potential for more cuts and instability that will affect educational experience. Inconvenient distance from nearest major city, Detroit, very boring and inactive, car-centric, suburban setting (a cloistered existence). Michigan has 4 distinct seasons, winter is too long, and summer is humid. Low risk for extreme weather events. Very expensive, not many scholarship opportunities. No TA possibility since only grad school. Currently $37,828 per year

**Yale School of Art**, MFA Graphic Design, New Haven Connecticut. [https://www.art.yale.edu/graphic-design](https://www.art.yale.edu/graphic-design) Its the ivy league, so this is privilege and power. New Haven is sort of sweet when you get to know it, but actually terrible when you stop and think about the weather, expense and depressing conditions. ""Cohesive, investigative body of work"" and an overall conceptual practice is emphasized, appealing to the top cultural sectors rather than popular industry.  Great facilities, and access to top resources across Yale. Interesting collaborations with the other MFA degrees. Top practitioners pass through, and highly accomplished designers as teachers. Somewhat obviously connected to Werkplaats Typografi, the famed NL design school: Karel Martens, the founder of that school, is also faculty at Yale. Very connected to New York City via high-end professional tracks, although the commute is tedious. Very, very motivated students, but also demonstrating ugly entitlement that does not always live up to student abilities. Extraordinarily expensive, but this rich school can hand out grants. Great if you can get in, and get funding. Currently: $43,230 per year

**Art Center College of Design**, MFA Graphic Design, Pasadena California. [http://www.artcenter.edu/academics/graduate-degrees/graphic-design/overview.html](http://www.artcenter.edu/academics/graduate-degrees/graphic-design/overview.html) Highly active, highly industry connected department with top designers instructors. Very fashionable, perhaps too hip, emphasis on entertainment industry and slickness. Excellent facilities. Specialized institutions doing highly relevant work such as Hoffman Milken Center for Typography. Pasadena is nice-ish, far from downtown LA because of miserable traffic, but metro train is great if also tediously slow (compared to other cities train transit, cannot compare to anything in EU). Very, very expensive, but there are some need-based scholarships and some grants. TA possibilities. Currently $47,388 per year

**CalArts**, MFA Graphic Design, Santa Clarita California.  [https://art.calarts.edu/programs/graphic-design/mfa](https://art.calarts.edu/programs/graphic-design/mfa) This school, founded by Disney, has been connected to entertainment industry since the beginning. It has a sky-high reputation, but the reality is somewhat less ideal with an absurd cost of tuition with negligible comparative results. The facilities are good, but not the best, even some state schools are better equipped. Faculty are design stars, but one gets a similar feeling when visiting the rock-n-roll hall of fame. Very little consideration for the students in this competitive environment, that may be meritocratic, or maybe just a lottery machine depending on who you ask. Santa Clarita is a nasty little exit off the highway in the lost hills above LA. Traffic is hell on earth, but the recently functional train is functional if you are going somewhere near the stops. Weather is perfect except when there are fires burning in all directions. Currently $50,850 	

**RISD**, MFA Graphic Design, Providence Rhode Island. [https://www.risd.edu/academics/graphic-design/graduate/](https://www.risd.edu/academics/graphic-design/graduate/) This is the top ranked, and obviously a good choice, but only for certain people. Hard to get in, expensive, emphasizing making over thinking, this is the boot-camp for industry workhorses. Skills are emphasized. Top facilities, studios, and faculty. Best industry connections across the board, but skewed to the east coast. Providence is cute, lots of flowing water and colonial era buildings, but also bleak, far too expensive, and cold (weather and people). Can actually walk around the city if you can afford to live somewhere in the center. There are some scholarship and TA possibilities, but cannot offset the absolutely stratospheric tuition costs. Currently: $50,960 per year.",0,4,10.889358174742924,GradSchool
Masters of Public Administration or Urban Planning?,"Hi there! I'm interested in making a career transition into government, and I've been considering getting either a Masters of Public Administration or Masters in Urban Planning, and I'm hoping for your help.

I came to this decision through an interest in urban planning (especially transportation planning). That's where my passion currently lies. But I've long been interested in a variety of areas in government, and I know that, as one moves up the urban planning ladder, it all becomes about politics anyway, and perhaps the leadership skills I'd learn in the MPA would be more useful than, say, learning about road design. I hope to eventually take on a leadership position in managing government programs, and that doesn't necessarily have to be in urban planning. I'm wondering if an MPA would help me cast a wider net as well as keep my options open. Also, an MPA is one year, not two like urban planning, which is attractive.

Really, what I'm missing is an understanding of where these degrees could take me. Is it harder to find a job with either one of them? Is it easier to move up the government ladder if you have an MPA? Does getting an MPA preclude one from urban planning jobs?

Thanks in advance for your thoughts.",1,2,10.93173085992811,GradSchool
"Given that I’ve an American undergrad degree, what kind of master’s programs should I be looking into in UK, if I want to practice as a licensed therapist in UK?","I’m not sure where to post this question so I apologise in advance if this is the wrong forum. Long story short, I want to spend some time in UK. I have a bachelors in biology and psychology. I want to become a licensed therapist and teach at university level. I am confident that my gpa is high enough to get my foot into the door least to say. I can’t get into a PhD program because I don’t have any experience, except for a year of independent study, no pubs though. I was thinking of practising as a therapist first with a masters then go to a PhD program later on, if I still wish to.",1,3,10.98409197103922,GradSchool
Those who got/are getting their Masters in something completely different from their undergrad degree. Why? And where are you now?,"I studied anthropology (my interest was archaeology) as an undergrad. However, I am gonna do either enviormental science or geology as my Masters. My current job inspired me to change my study. What's your stories?",13,3,11.006383637705888,GradSchool
Good jobs for MSc student while in school,"Hey guys, 

Currently in a Research Master's at a university that doesn't have undergrads (No GTA positions). I am burning out working full time on top of my full time schooling. My current boss won't let me cut my hours so I wanted to see if anyone had any good ideas on part time (30hrs) jobs that students could take that pay well enough to cover living expenses. I've been trying to find a position in a lab but it seems like funding is an issue. Open to any suggestions. Thanks!",3,1,11.006927619187367,GradSchool
How specific should you be about your interests in a statement of purpose?,"Trying to write my statement of purpose and it keeps coming out like an abstract for a thesis. Whenever I write what movements and theories I'm interested in, I keep feeling the need to expound on why, and then it feels to detailed. My field is complit if that helps.",1,0,11.01352484140959,GradSchool
An Imposter Syndrome Is Among Us!,,0,15,11.055723915483664,GradSchool
Applied Stats M.S vs Stats M.S for PhD in Stats,"Hi everyone!


I am a 3rd year at a unknown state school in California (top 50) studying math with an option in statistics. I would like to work in the tech/finance industry. I was wondering if I wanted to get into a top 20 PhD stats program, if a masters in applied stats or thereotical stats would be better as a stepping stone. 



I've decided to not go directly straight into a PhD program since I think my undergraduate grades in math  (3.67 GPA) and school ranking are not high enough, but I will still apply to a few just for kicks. 


Anyways my question is would I be foolish to do an applied stats masters as a stepping stone for a PhD program?



Coursework:


Calc 1,2: A


Calc 3: B


Linear Algebra: A


Real Analysis I,II: B, A


Abstract Algebra: A


Probability Theory: B


Statistical Theory: A


Regression Analysis: In progress


Statistical Inference (Grad): A


Data Informatics (Grad): A


Random Processes: In progress


Measure Theory: In progress


Stocastic Calculus: In progress",12,1,11.12298085992811,GradSchool
Am I the only one feeling that I made the wrong grad school decision?,"Most of us put an enormous amount of effort into Ph.D. applications. I was lucky (or unlucky) to get multiple offers - two from top-ranked universities. I left both of these to join a tier-three university because I felt I had a great research interest match with a professor here. One month into my grad program, I am not liking the lab culture, the general university culture and the fact that there are very few faculties in my department (which translates to very few talks related to my field). I am struggling to integrate into a foreign culture and bond with my cohorts. Meanwhile, my college batchmates went to top places (and I feel inferiority complex). I have lately been feeling very lonely and depressed. I think I made the wrong decision and I feel I should re-apply :(.",11,17,11.138640582150332,GradSchool
Having a Hard Time Teaching— Not Sure What to Do?,"Hi guys— I am in teaching hell and I’m not sure how to deal.

My department requires PhD students to teach. I was slotted in to a 20-stusent Gen Chem lab that meets 2x a week for 6 hr/week. I am only paid for the 6 hours.

Here’s the thing: I am expected to spend a maximum of 10 (unpaid) hours grading. The lab directors assign *8 assignments per student per week.* I am expected to grade *160 assignments*, off the clock, a week. These are full-on lab reports, some of which are clearly written in 15 minutes and are unparseble gibberish I can barely read. It takes me much longer than 10 hours to go through everything a week, possibly because I also have a learning disability and take longer than a neurotypical student to read.

My pre-med students are absolute terrors that harass me for every point I take off, send indignant e-mails to myself and the lab directors over every infraction (one sent *five* because the manual didn’t specify he was looking for *white* globules, not just globules in general, during an experiment), and complain that I don’t grade fast enough.  Some don’t follow directions or don’t listen to me, then tell the lab directors I’m a terrible instructor. Others will play possum and ask so many questions about every single step that other students form a line behind them to ask me questions. I can feel myself becoming more strict and callous, and my students are just pushing me harder.

The lab directors are helpful when I ask for advice and defend me to my students, but they blame me for the slow pace wrt grading. Even my advisor is now coming into lab to tell me to hurry up grading. I have two sets of assignments graded and sent back, but I’m still staring down four ungraded sets— Four assignments per student, per set.

I am trying to finish my coursework and prepare for my second level, but it has now become impossible. This nightmare class has taken over my life. I’m answering student emails at all hours, grading all weekend, and grading all day when I’m supposed to be doing my research. My heart races and I begin to panic whenever I see a new email about the class in my inbox. I no longer want to come in to teach at all. I just want to stay home and hide from everyone.

Any advice on how to manage my time and/or look into getting a lower teaching load? Or advice on how to survive?",7,2,11.167506322891072,GradSchool
Anyone else frustrated with balancing schoolwork and research?,I just started my PhD program this Fall and it's frustrating not having as much time I did during my undergrad to focus on my research. I do so much reading and writing for my courses every week that whenever I get a short break the last thing I want to do is write or read. Now I understand why professors use holiday breaks to catch up on all of their research. That's the main reason I am looking forward to Thanksgiving break lol. Anyone else have this issue?,4,13,11.195978545113293,GradSchool
Has anyone out there gotten masters level licensure in counseling and later gone on to a PhD in counseling or research?,"I'm just trying to map out different options before committing to a program. I'm applying for master's programs and figured I should probably get licensure out of it just in case I decide that a PhD isn't right for me. I've heard that some people do get a masters and later go on to get a PhD, especially in the case of low gpa like me. I was just wondering if there might be things to avoid, such has certain types of degrees, that might make it more difficult to get a higher degree. 

If it's relevant at all, I'm looking at working as a victim advocate or something within juvenile justice. It seems like a lot of those jobs in my area require a LPC, which I could get in a masters program.",5,1,11.231372063631813,GradSchool
To submit or not submit,"Hi all,

So I’m a first year grad student, and I have worked all summer writing for the NSF-GRFP. I am getting really mixed signals on whether I should submit this application this cycle or next (you have to choose, can’t do both.) I don’t have any publications, and I’m uncertain if I will by next cycle (ecology can make publishing slow if your field work is confined to certain times of the year). 

At this point I just have no idea what to do. 

Thank you :)",4,1,11.254971600668851,GradSchool
Has anyone made the conscious decision to not make their PhD the epicenter of their life?,"Recently I switched advisors and had about 4 months beforehand where I was in limbo. Long story short, I had no research projects and there was a point at which I thought I would have to leave the program & my old advisor would try to screw my career (he had done this to a previous grad student). I essentially lost my sense of self and went into a severe depression. Now coming out of it, I realize my PhD was my \*entire\* life. All aspects of my life outside of school were brushed to the side and I felt so incredibly alone when I didn't have school to fill my time. At least in my program, it seems like there is an expectation of your PhD being all-consuming and I can't do that for 4 more years. I absolutely love what I'm researching and will still work my ass off. I can't imagine doing anything else, just not to the point where school is the only thing important in my life.",56,237,11.264740119187367,GradSchool
PhD offer - looking for advice,"I'm currently in my second month of my Masters degree in Political science and I just got what seems to be an amazing offer from my BA Thesis supervisor.

So me and her worked really really well together and we are actually trying to get my thesis published as an article. In one of the last meetings we had she mentioned something about doing a PhD together but I didn't pay too much attention since I thought she wasn't serious. 

Yesterday I received an email form her asking me to work under her supervision towards a PhD proposal for a project which will be launching in February. It's on a topic that I'm really interested in and I would absolutely love to work with her on this. 

My question is, has anybody worked on a PhD and an MSc at the same time? To be fair my masters is research oriented so I can see that there would be a lot of possibilities to accommodate this. Still it seems rather unusual and I would love to know if anyone else has had similar experience or has any advice?",5,2,11.289879008076257,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Network at a conference?

* Earn the opportunity to run a workshop series?

* Celebrate your birthday?

* Start your dissertation research?

* Start planning for a research paper?

* Win an award?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",22,10,11.292865119187368,GradSchool
Possibly a helpful site,"Happy Friday y'all,

I stumbled across this site this morning while looking for a protocol. Basically it looks like a site where you can upload and find various protocols either in the literature or that individuals researchers decide to share. I haven't explored the site much so I don't know how helpful it will be but so far it seems good. Hopefully it'll help some of y'all finding those methods.

[https://www.protocols.io](https://www.protocols.io)",1,3,11.380700767335517,GradSchool
PhD Situation - I need some advice,"I am in a three year PhD program that is based in Australia. Currently I am finishing my second year and preparing for my third and final year. Now this situation is a bit tricky to explain so lets stat from the beginning.

&#x200B;

My US-based work offer to support me financially during my PhD and hooked me up with an advisor in Australia who used to work at the same place.  I received funding from work for data collection and equipment, and a full tuition waiver with living stipend from the university. Everything seemed like it would be a great fit, but shortly after arriving in Australia, I realized the program was very misleading and not what I wanted.  Within two months of arriving, my advisor decided to share an unpublished manuscript I was working on (and shared with him to get feed back) with one of his undergraduate honours students. He did this without my permission and ultimately they decided to use my research after realizing my methods actually work. I consider this to be plagiarism and spoke with him about it, and he agreed to put me on any future publications they do with his undergrad students work. However, the situation has never really felt right to me.

&#x200B;

As the year progressed everything got worse. This PhD program offers absolutely no experience that will benefit me or my career. Being in Australia is a big waste of time. The advisor is an absolute asshole, has done nothing for my research project, and has derailed it on several occasions by not getting anything done within our agreed upon deadlines, and in my opinion does not deserve to have his name on any of my research because his lack of involvement. It's so bad that he is not even capable of doing my research on his own because he lacks the technical expertise to do it. I am basically a paper-cow for him to cash in on. Because of all this, I decided to do my second year data collection back in the US while working. However, now my advisor is forcing me to return to Australia and essentially holding my scholarship against me. If I don't return I will lose my tuition scholarship. However, if I do return it will be another waste of time where I sit around doing jack shit. The only reason I haven't dropped out yet is because my work has invested thousands of dollars into my research project, and I don't want to do wrong by them.

&#x200B;

Before I went with the Australian school, I was offered another PhD spot at a US university. This person was also previously affiliated with my work. I decided against it at the time because Australia seemed like it would be the best option given it was only a three year program, but now I regret it. If I could make that decision again I would go with the US university. The professor has reached out to me on a number of occasions and told me I always have a spot at his university if I want it. He is actually a really nice guy and I know I would be happy doing research with him.

&#x200B;

With all that said, here is my situation where I need advice. I am one year away from finishing the PhD in Australia. It requires me to go back to finishing since my advisor is holding my tuition as leverage to get me back there. So here are the options I am consdering:

&#x200B;

1. Do I finish the Australian PhD?
2. Should I quit and restart a PhD at the US university? (This would take between 4-6 years to finish and risk pissing off my work). This PhD would likely have to be self-funded.
3. Do I finish the Australian PhD and then start a new PhD at the US university?
4. Do I finish the Australian PhD and try to do a postdoc at the US university?

All I know is that going back to Australia will make me absolutely miserable. My gut feeling is that I should just drop out and start over at a US university, but logically it makes sense to just finish since I am close to being done. I don't know what to do.",5,5,11.394022526594775,GradSchool
"I'm sure this gets asked all the time, but does anyone have any 2 in 1 laptop recommendations?","Hey all, I have needed to get a new laptop for awhile, and now that I've started my PhD it's definitely time to just go for it. I think I want a 2 in 1 laptop, so that I can take notes on slides, and mainly so that I can annotate papers and stuff. 

Wondering if anyone has any laptops that they absolutely love, or if there's not much of a difference. Also in that same line any stylus recommendations would be great too. I'm leaning to picking either a Lenovo or an HP

Thanks!",11,1,11.41147623029848,GradSchool
Masters landscape architecture student becoming too miserable to get anything done.,"Time for me to vent to some kindhearted strangers! Lately I've been too distracted by my own stress and unhappiness to actually get anything done. I keep falling farther and farther behind because I need to spend hours crying or lying on the sofa.  

To give some background: I'm about to turn 27 and filled with anxiety about getting older. I feel like I've wasted my life thus far. My goal has always been to devote my life to helping solve environmental problems. But my undergraduate experience was a massive fuck up. After that I did two americorps years, then worked as a tutor before coming to my current program. I thought this career would bring me closer to my goal but much of the course work feels irrelevant to what I want to do, it doesn't help that my department is largely dis-functional and run by a dictator of a program director. I also am becoming incredibly crazy from the amount of time I have to spend looking at a computer. 

My boyfriend (who is an incredibly supportive partner) and I have talked about how my mental health might not be strong enough for me to be a students this semester. But I have nowhere to go if I walk away. Part of the reason why I'm in this position is that I changed my major too many times as an undergrad and never really got anything out of the experience. Knowing that I feel like I should stick it our for another 20 months. But I also want out so bad that it's crazy. Where would I go if I left? Would I lose my TA job? It feels too late to start over, but also just can't stand it. 

tl;dr  Landscape architecture student, wants nothing more in life than to help repair the environment but has never really succeeded at anything and is losing hope.",1,2,11.444693822891072,GradSchool
Doing my qualification today.,"I was supposed to do in 6 months from now. But I had to speed up due to an exchange opportunity. The text and presentation are shit. My advisors sent corrections 10 p. M.  Yesterday. Wish me luck.

I sent the text one week ago. My advisors delayed the text review. 2 weeks ago I was talking to one advisor on the hallway when one of the judges asked me where was the text. Rsrsrs",2,3,11.472425304372553,GradSchool
Midterm online!! (home Internet is not trustworthy!),"So our midterm is to be done online. It’s two hours long and It’s due this weekend and I’ll be away from my schools WiFi.  I have to settle to find a local spot with strong WiFi. I have really bad anxiety with this cause when I took an o line quiz at home one day my internet crapped out and the entire page messed up.  This can technically happen anywhere.  Like if there was a power outage or something.  There’s really no stopping that.  So I’m trying to take this exam at a place that has the best of the best internet.  I’ve searched some places and I really have only gotten places like Starbucks, McDonalds (24hr spots), other coffee spots, local libraries....  kinda freaking out here!  Where do you guys go to take your exams???",4,1,11.650608174742924,GradSchool
How did you get over the post-quals slumps?,,5,3,11.759635952520702,GradSchool
Love Immunology/Microbiology but dont like the Research,"Hey all!  
   
Just a quick rundown to put things in perspective. I graduated with a B.S. in Microbiology and Immunology and Ive been working in a lab as a staff research associate for almost 3 years and I feel like its time to further my education. My lab is good, but I feel like its more on the processing/technician side and less so on the research.  


I'm looking at applying to an Immunology program to get an MS but I am not inclined to move further into a PhD or research. Frankly, I dont think Im smart enough nor do I like the off hours related to research.  I looked at an MPH but it looks like a waste as opportunities are difficult to come across and a lot of people Ive talked to said its kind of a waste of money. I still do like the concept of global health, disease propagation, etc. but I still do like learning the harder science behind it all and love learning about diseases at the microbio level . Any thoughts on how to proceed regarding grad school or career paths that kind of line up with that? Thanks for any input.",0,2,11.779682248816998,GradSchool
Which GRE score to send?,"I am applying as a CS major to grad school, I have two GRE scores which are somewhat similar. One is a score of 159 Q and 159 V and the other being 161 Q and 154 V. I know CS schools value quant scores a bit more, but I am not sure what score is better to send.  So which score is better to send?",2,0,11.869971600668851,GradSchool
Work and Life got in the way,"Work and life got in the way finally.. It finally happened. Writing a paper, I finally hit a wall. A month filled with overtime at work, work on weekends, and finding as much time as possible in-between to not only revise a paper, but rewrite it entirely. the requirements were well high. Very short paper of 30 pages, requiring 100 citations. it's due today. I have 15 pages written with only 30 citations. Not enough. Not nearly enough. And I feel like a total failure. I knew with taking this job that pays quite well, I'll eventually hit a wall with it. It'll be a choice between my PhD program and my job. I'm right there now at this crossroads.. I'm not sure what to do. I am considering dropping out now that I feel like the situation is completely unmanageable. I feel signs of burnout, and it started affecting my work at my job. That's the last thing I need to happen to me. Lose my means to pay rent, bills, and afford food.  This PhD program is starting to look like a liability. 

&#x200B;

Is it time to call it quits?",2,1,11.884994748816997,GradSchool
how to reach out to professors of potential advisor?,"I plan on applying to grad schools for next school year. I've done enough search where to apply and who I'd like to work with. 

1. I thought it would be a good idea to reach out to those professors, so they are more familiar with my background and what I'd like to accomplish. Is this a good idea? worth a try?
2. If it's a good idea, what's the best way to approach? I have a pretty good idea what I want to do research on, but I don't know for sure. 
3. If what they have been publishing aren't directly related to any of the researches posted on the official group website, what does that imply? 
4. Any suggestions or comments? 

&#x200B;

thanks!",1,0,11.891545674742924,GradSchool
My new advisor is AWESOME!,"He actively works with me so that I can familiarize myself with the relevant literature. He let me borrow his book so that I can understand the fundamentals of the research area. He let me audit his class and sent me the note packages. And today he introduced me to his wife (who is also a professor). They said they hope to meet my husband, maybe over lunch or something, and they'd be happy to discuss ideas and get to know each other.

This is another thing that I was missing from my previous advisor. He wasn't personable. With him it was usually always *business*. Not only that, but he just wasn't encouraging or motivating, and I felt like I had zero direction. I knew I wasn't giving my 100% but at the same time I felt like I was at my limit. Now my new advisor is more like a mentor; I'm not even *officially* working with him until next semester, yet we are working together, and I'm actively trying to have a better understanding. He supports me combining ideas. I am actively working *not* because he pushes me, but because he *motivates* me. With him I feel like giving my 115%.

I'd say that the point of this post is finding a *mentor* rather than a *boss* can really help you reach your full potential.",26,212,11.920990119187369,GradSchool
PhD Biochemistry program with no/minimal class or teaching requirements,"Hey everyone, I'm looking for a program with little to no class and/or teaching requirements. I just want to do research. Does anyone know of any programs like this? Thanks in advance.",10,2,11.93690447103922,GradSchool
What programs do y'all use to design and present your figures/charts?,,19,5,11.93977484140959,GradSchool
How do I open a .nbib file without paying for software?,Someone sent me a .nbib file. Zotero does not recognize. I don't have endnote or Mendely :(,2,1,11.97784197103922,GradSchool
"I’m out of ideas on how to study and the counselor is at a loss as well, any ideas?","So I’ve never really found the sweet spot on a study technique. My undergrad approach which I refer to as throwing spaghetti against the wall is only making me burn out. We did establish that there are two ways that I seem to learn the best, going to a professors office hours to explain the concepts to them and small study groups. Well the professor that I need the most help from is not very into this whole idea of having a student take up more than 5 minutes of time and the study group is burnt out and not getting much done. I don’t retain well studying by myself. I read, make quizlets, test myself with the quizlets but it doesn’t stick. I find myself learning some, forgetting it after learning the next part and just getting stuck relearning things. I have carpal tunnel in both hands which is limiting my ability to just copy all the notes. You guys have any ideas? I’m at a loss.",6,3,11.979589656224405,GradSchool
Taking the GRE in 3 months...,"I am thinking of going for a M.A. in Sports Management or Tourism and Hospitality Management. I haven't taken an exam in years and am absolutely nervous about bombing it. I found a few books in the library that I will use to study and have been using these last few days but I feel like I may need a tutor to help me with Writing and Math. What online programs, apps, or tutoring services do you recommend for someone who is on a tight budget?",2,0,11.983304934002184,GradSchool
A cool vid on how to apply for a PhD in the UK!,,1,1,12.023281785854035,GradSchool
Personal Statement,"I am kinda freaking out because I sent in my application for Stern on 9/4, but when I looked back at the requirements I see that the header required me to put my name, birthday, essay # and page #. I must have overlooked this.

My essay only had the essay and my last name with the page number. Should I fix this and re-upload the essay if that’s even possible?",1,2,12.025260952520702,GradSchool
Writer’s block/anxiety,"Anyone have any good tips for this. I found I had little problem writing at the masters level, but I keep on freezing up at the PhD level for assignments and papers.",3,3,12.126441508076256,GradSchool
What are some successful job search strategies for jobs outside academia?,,3,1,12.144786415483665,GradSchool
Dual MS to PhD programs,I know of some friends that are in a dual program for masters to PhD but not for psychology. I am looking for any information on schools that offer dual Masters of Science to PhD in clinical psychology. Please let me know if you have heard of any programs that exist like this.,3,1,12.162679934002183,GradSchool
NSERC - CGS/D successful applications?,"Hello, just wondering if anyone has access to successful NSERC CGS/D applications? 

I am working on mine and it is almost done but I would like to compare my formatting etc... 

Also - anyone that has recently received an NSERC have any advice? 

My background in is mining engineering, I have a very strong GPA, I received an NSERC URSA in my undergrad and I am just finishing an NSERC CGS-M before upgrading to a PhD... Any thing helps. I think we all know the anxiety related to funding, lack thereof and the lead up to these awards. Much appreciated & happy writing.",11,5,12.173223915483664,GradSchool
"Masters directly after undergrad, or a year or two workplace experience before doing masters?","So I'm just about to finish my undergrad in Computer Science and Statistics. I've studies for 4 years now and should start applying for Masters courses.

My Masters would consist of only a full dissertation. I kindof have a few ideas for a research topic, but nothing really takes my mind. 

I am really keen to start working and earning some cash. Besides that, I'm interested to get some experience and see what it is like in practice.

So my question, so I work a year or two before doing my Masters( part time), or should I just get it over with now?",3,3,12.179705396965147,GradSchool
Does anyone else find that they have a hard time remembering earlier courses?,"I'm in a 2.5 year Master's in Data Analytics program.

I had to take a semester off due to finances.

Then, I had two semesters where I had to take only 1 course instead of 2 because of scheduling.

This semester is really stressing me out, and I asked my adviser about dropping a class and she dropped me from it (I was just asking for information!). I've completed 7 out of 10 courses. I honestly don't remember the earlier courses much, and I'm finding myself so anxious I don't know how much I'm absorbing.

Is this just me? I honestly don't remember undergrad, like, at all now.

I just have this feeling this isn't going to work out or that I'll forget everything.",8,21,12.181453082150332,GradSchool
Setting boundaries with collaborators,"I recently ended up in a situation where I submitted a paper that I independently wrote to my collaborators for their review over two years ago. They ignored my emails asking about the paper over the next two years, only to tell me last month that it requires significant revision. Fine. Only... they need a publication-ready draft in 6 weeks (regulatory documents expire then) and they’re not going to help write any of it, redo any analyses, or do any other coauthorship duties. I then gave them an outline in less than a week and it took them 20 days to provide me with feedback. I’m ready to tell them I can’t do it because I can’t realistically start from scratch and rewrite a whole paper independently in less than a month. Has anybody been here before? Any advice for navigating through this?",9,9,12.185110489557738,GradSchool
Committee meeting prior to qual exam,"Hi everyone,

I have a committee meeting set up for next week and my actual QE will be happening in November (no set date yet). A pre-qual committee meeting is not required in my program, so many of the older students have no experience and don’t have a ton of advice for me. My PI told me to prepare a presentation on the background info that led me to my aims, but don’t present the actual aims. This sounded pretty casual to me, but another friend in a different program told me that his was 1.5hrs and was like a mini QE. I am my PI’s first grad student, so I’m not sure if she doesn’t have a good grasp on what to expect at this committee meeting either. If any of you can offer me some advice on how to prepare/what to expect that would be greatly appreciated. Thanks!",1,2,12.190631322891072,GradSchool
Will getting a post graduate diploma improve my application for course-based masters?,Do admissions committees look down on candidates with a PGDip applying to a master's program of the same subject?  Wondering if it's a viable way to improve my chances at admission + gain preqs.  Thanks.,0,2,12.207703082150331,GradSchool
I want to change my thesis,"I literally just started grad school this fall and have gotten a full one paragraph into my proposal. As I continue to do research I cannot stop thinking about how I don't want this to be my thesis. My thesis feels more like a review paper and I don't want it to be that. To be honest, I always wanted to do field work. The problem is I have no idea what I would change it to. Given that it's my first semester, I should be able to change it, right? Although I am a master's student.

 Have any of you guys changed your thesis entirely after starting?",7,6,12.219219285854034,GradSchool
Spending money to attend a conference,"What are your thoughts on attending a conference that I have to spend a good chunk of my own money to attend (likely ~$600-700)? Our department provides $500 to first year grad students to attend a conference without needing to present a poster, but this particular conference is really expensive because it’s held at a retreat center (which also means lodging and meals are included for the 3 day conference).

Thoughts? 

It does sound both personally and professionally enjoyable- the schedule includes time for a hike and an evening fire under the stars :) Also my advisor will be there and it’s a pretty small conference (~130 people) so I could meet a lot of relevant people in the field. 

It takes place in early-mid November, so I have not found any options for additional funding with that short of a turnaround time :(",8,2,12.23045771177996,GradSchool
Name spelled wrong on first publication?,"I'm a first year PhD student and this past May I got published (Way down the author list) for a project I helped with at a summer internship back in 2016. I got a copy of the manuscript to review during the publication process, and I saw my last name was spelled wrong. I asked the PI from that lab to correct it, and he said he would fix it. Then I heard nothing until the final update that it was being published in Science Advances. Okay, cool. I thought nothing more of it. I was a very minor author and was very busy at the time so I didn't ask to see the manuscript again (Definitely should have, in retrospect.) 

Then today, I realized I couldn't find myself when I searched my name on pubmed. I did some digging, and found that the paper was indeed published.... With my last name still spelled wrong. Is there anything that can be done about this now, after it has already been published months ago? Also, how important is this misspelling in the larger scheme of things, especially since I will be getting married in early 2021 and am planning to take my future husband's last name, so any future pubs will have a different last name anyway?",5,2,12.254879008076257,GradSchool
How to know how I'm doing academically,"Hi all—I'm a first year PhD student and one thing I've found very surprising about grad school so far is how difficult it is to get a sense of how I'm doing as the semester progresses. I'm about five weeks in now and for most of my courses, I have only a very vague sense of how I'm faring. I'll do the readings (sometimes not all of them though—which I'm told is typical in grad school), write papers, do assignments, contribute in class. 

But I've received almost no objective feedback—even for assignments I've done. The only real numbers I've seen have come from weekly statistics assignments. Sometimes they're encouraging, sometimes less so. Meanwhile my advisor tells me we can't meet weekly for a while, and didn't even show up to what I thought was a scheduled meeting yesterday.

So I'm left parsing through my responses in class, wondering if the professor can tell when I don't understand something, or whether my contribution was valuable enough to vocalize. 

I'm just wondering if y'all had a better sense of how your semester is going academically, and how. In undergrad there seemed to be so much more documentation, so if you were on the wrong track there was a much greater chance of an early intervention. 

What I'm really worried about is being on the wrong track, or missing something important, and then not finding out until it's too late. Like many of you, I'm guessing, my funding depends on achieving a certain GPA. I've never been like a C student, but this stuff is really hard, and it's terrifying to think that getting a C could essentially kick me out of the program. 

Sorry—long message. Any feedback welcome. Thanks!",7,2,12.277795674742924,GradSchool
LOR,Is it a blessing or a curse if someone asks you to draft your letter of recommendation for them?,7,2,12.29508734140959,GradSchool
TA failure,"This is my first semester being a TA. I am a TA for a lower level course and today I feel like an idiot. A student came in for help to understanding an assignment. I try to keep up with the course material but as you can guess I have a lot of work on my own to do, and for some reason the assignments in this course are incredibly long. Usually students only ever ask me about their grades, how the class works, etc. But they had specific questions about the course material and the questions the assignment was asking and I could not answer anything because I don't really know the course material that well, so I could not do a good job answering the questions.  Anyway, they were quite mad at me and I am sure they are going to have not nice things to tell the professor.

&#x200B;

Just wanted to know what is your guys approach for TAing for a class they have never taken before/don't really know much about.

&#x200B;

Edit: I should have specify that this is an online class.",58,120,12.354786415483664,GradSchool
Using transcription services / software,Most of my meetings with my supervisors are done via video conferencing. This gives me the bonus of being able to record the sessions. I am considering running the video through a transcription program or service. Has anyone used one they have found user friendly? Can anyone make any recommendations?  Are there any cautionary tales to warn me about before I use a transcription service or program?,5,3,12.588594285854034,GradSchool
Financial aid for returning students,"Hi all!

I am currently unemployed and miss school immensely, so I am considering a grand return to academia to pursue my PhD. The problem is that...everything is incredibly expensive. I thought about retaking my Math portion of the GRE-expensive. I want to apply to a really awesome PhD program-app fee is ridiculous. Joint degree program? Forget about it; that's TWO app fees!

&#x200B;

Any advice or assistance on this subject?   
Note:  I looked up GRE fee discount waivers and am unsure I qualify since I'm not drawing unemployment.",1,2,12.820446137705886,GradSchool
First year physics student,"I am a first year physics graduate student at a relatively lower ranked university and I have been struggling the first 2 months.  I came to this specific university to work with a particular professor and came into the program pretty confident considering I went to a reputable undergraduate institute.  I am now feeling lost in half of my classes and am not sure if this is right for me.  Is this a common feeling for first year students or should I rethink my decision and just go for an industry job?  I am currently doing more work than other first year students since the professor i wanted to work with insisted that I started research my first semester (on top of taking core classes to prepare for qualifier exams which are required to become a PhD candidate and being a TA).  I feel like I have little to no free time due to the sheer amount of work given by professors and the amount of time I allocate for grading and teaching alongside research.  Apologies for lack of structure to this post as I am quickly writing it before getting back to studying. 

TLDR: first year physics grad student feeling overwhelmed with core courses, being a TA, and doing research.  Should I consider withdrawing and getting an industry job or is this somewhat typical of for first year students?",2,5,12.855747063631814,GradSchool
Why is writing a paper sooo hard. Aaargh.,"I'm not a fan of writing in academic style. Why can't I cut to the chase and just present my results ? The lit review is the hardest part since the concept is new and there's not a lot of similarities with work done in the field.
I'm just so not motivated to write. 

TLDR: Rant.",17,44,12.873582711779962,GradSchool
Who has switched fields during grad school?,"Long story short, I had an abusive advisor for the first half of my MS. It got to the point where I was going to drop out of grad school completely when an opportunity to finish my MS in another lab came along. New lab is great. PI and labmates are wonderful and supportive. PI has encouraged me to stay for a PhD, which I am thrilled about. I just can’t help feeling like an absolute idiot most of the time because I have been immersed in a completely different type of research until now. 

Has anyone else gone through this? How did you “catch up” or make the transition easier? I’m making progress, but sometimes it’s difficult to accept where I’m at compared to the others (yay imposter syndrome)",6,2,12.896881322891073,GradSchool
Where should I take math classes post-undergrad and pre-grad school?,"Hi everyone! I have a question.  I studied economics in undergrad and recently have been thinking about pursuing higher ed of some kind in Economics (preferably Ph. D).  I unfortunately didn't take as much math as I should have in undergrad:  I took Calc 1 and 2, Diff EQ, Intro to Stats and Econometrics, but believe I need to take multi-variate calc, linear algebra, and probably real analysis to have a shot at programs I'd like to get into.  

My question is: What is the best way to beef up my math curriculum over the next 1-2 years, pre-grad school applications?  For reference, I live in Northern Virginia and I'm in driving distance to both a large state school (George Mason) and a community college.  I'm also open to taking online classes.  I work at a public accounting firm during the week, so I pretty much only have nights and weekends free.  Any help you can provide would be much appreciated!!",2,1,12.909034100668851,GradSchool
"Do you track your hours? If so, how do you do this/any helpful apps or systems you use?","Basically says it in the title. Do you track the hours you spend working on your project? Do you show these to your advisor? 

If you do track them, how much detail do you go into? Do you have a set system/app/spreadhseet you follow?

Thanks!",1,1,12.925619748816997,GradSchool
Last semester blues,"Hey y’all. I’m struggling a bit lately. I’m going through lots of changes right now in my life, one of them being that I’m graduating in December with my masters. Additionally I just got engaged. Just moved in with my fiancé. Am applying for jobs. Going to class. Working on school stuff. Doing a full time 40 hour internship. Planning a wedding. Taking care of 2 dogs. Trying to have a social life.... the list goes on. I’ve struggled with anxiety and depression since I was a teenager. It has been well managed with medication the past 4 years. But as of 2 months ago I’ve just haven’t been feeling like “myself.” Obviously I’m not an idiot and I understand that the average person would likely be overwhelmed by all of these things... but I’m wondering if it feels worse than it actually is due to my depression or if this is normal. 

If any of y’all have some words of wisdom I’d appreciate it. I’ve been in school back to back since kindergarten so finishing grad school is obviously exciting but terrifying at the same time. So many unknowns.",2,2,12.956881322891071,GradSchool
What to ask to a potential research mentor when discussing about a project?,"I am a current PhD student and I am applying for a summer research intern. I am in talk with a potential mentor and we have decided to schedule a call tomorrow to talk about a potential research project. I am from a very small university and I seriously think that my skills might not be very advanced for a research project in a big research group. So I am kind of anxious about the phone call tomorrow. Also I am not very good at talking to people on the phone. So, What kind of questions should I ask him about the project? Or simply how should I approach this phone call. I do not have any experience regarding these stuff so any advice will be appreciated.

If it helps, my PhD is in Mathematics( specializing in Statistics), and the research project will be something related to statistics and machine learning.",0,1,12.958929934002184,GradSchool
GRE Scores,"Hi, I am applying to a few MEng Software Engineering programs, and I just took my first GRE. I scored 164 on the verbal section and 158 on the quantitative. Should I retake the exam and wait 3 weeks to finish applying, or should I go ahead with my applications with my current scores?

Any advice would be appreciated. Thanks",2,0,12.985249378446628,GradSchool
Feeling a bit lost.,"Hi. I am hoping for a bit of advice from people who've been in a similar position. I'm partway through a PhD program and I just earned my MIP in the spring. I'm now facing the task of designing and fleshing out my dissertation topic and project, which just feels so daunting to me. I could pursue a similar project to what I used for my MIP, and just increase the scope, but it's not an area that I'm particularly interested in. I also would need to flesh out what that project's ""significant contribution to our understanding"" would be, and since it isn't something I care deeply about, that doesn't appeal to me at all. Unfortunately the university I chose doesn't have a specialist in exactly the area I want to study, which I originally thought would be a benefit to me since I would have outside perspective on things, but it hasn't turned out that way. My advisor is renowned in our field and is a really great professor, but as an advisor he's very hands-off. He's had some health issues lately and that's meant he's even more distant, which is hard for me since I feel like he expects me to be making progress on things when I feel too lost to even know where to begin on starting a project design. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

I feel frustrated with my university on a different level mainly to do with how the overarching structure has treated grad students. We are underpaid (I know, everyone's underpaid, but we make a good 5-8k less than most other people in my field, in an area with a pretty high cost of living) and the university bungled at least three sexual harassment cases \*that I know of.\* Those extenuating circumstances are making me even less willing to sink four more years of my life into this place for a career I'm not sold on.

&#x200B;

I don't want to be a professor, and my field doesn't have an ""industry"" option, so I'm basically looking at museum work or leaving the field, which honestly isn't that much of a conflict for me. I guess I just want to hear from other people who have had to deeply consider staying or going, and what made you choose what you did?",0,2,12.993895211779963,GradSchool
A bit of a garble about advisors after graduation and a small FYI,"I am 10 months out of grad school. I got out by fighting and clawing against a pretty rough advisor (fighting over edits (that he forgot he did) sabotage (his employees were told to do it) and poor understanding of the data and what we were trying to show (I’d say equal parts naughty here)).  

But I finally did it. It was bad enough that I left my field (but not science!) to find a job. He emailed me several times asking when I was going to publish, but I didn’t answer back. I hate his editing (he doesn’t actually read and then gets made later and makes you rewrite months of work on a whim), he made tons of promises he didn’t even come close to keeping, and then let others sabotage my lab space (not that it was secure enough for micro work in the first place...but that’s my mistake for not fighting it earlier).  He didn’t agree to let me graduate. That was another fight on its own. Luckily for me, every one signed off and I was able to get free. So like I said, rough but done. I did it. (Sorry for the rant, it’s things I can’t quite say to him yet haha)

10 months. Several emails “just checking in” on me unanswered because I am still dealing from the damage done. I have a job in a lab doing things completely unrelated to my field, but damn, money in the bank (seriously it’s still a bit lower then middle class but it’s more then grad school Hahahaha)! 

And then he sends an email letting me know if he doesn’t hear back he’s gonna publish my work (copy/ paste from my thesis) and add me as co-author.... with out input for how my work and data are used?!!

Whaaattt we didn’t even agree on what my data said and now were all the sudden publishing?!? 
Can he do that?!? 

How do I respond? He’s copied two people from my committee as well??? What the heck is going on here? I start to spiral back into the ridiculous unhealthy mindset that I had been healing from away from grad school. Freaking out- typing up really angry responses and deleting them- like over and over seriously not even sure what I am saying.

Then I remembered - I’m not alone!!! I called my undergrad advisor (super great full for ‘em) and said how the heck do I respond????

 He gave me some great advice- 
1. Unless you signed a contract saying he owns your work- he can’t publish your work with out proving he “couldn’t find you”. (I am certain this was his plan since I didn’t respond to his more buddy buddy emails). 
2. Don’t email back in the chain. The other people have a stake in getting the data published- they need to know that you can no longer work with your former advisor due to personal reasons. You can explain what happened to your data with out going into detail. (I didn’t find out about the sabotage until after I graduated when an employee told me about what they were told to do)
3. Call the other people publishing on this paper and ask them what they want to do about it. (Like, do they want to do the edits maybe so I can continue to write? Do they want to be the bridge?) 

I haven’t gotten to call the others yet. And honestly, my husband saw me pacing on the phone and handed me a drink...so I will do that first thing tomorrow. 

I just wanted to remind any one who might be in a similar bad advisor place that your not stuck, they don’t OWN you, and sometimes you might remember you have places you can go to for advice. (Even if it’s just reddit) just get thru the spiral. 

I know this was a bit rant-y, and it seems like it was all rough, but honestly the work was amazing, and I’m so damned proud of it :) I would love to do it forever, and some day I will find something in my field - so keep your head up! 

Long story short- grad school was f’ed up yo. But they don’t own you. Make sure you own your work- respond to emails- and work around the problems. Your not alone, enjoy the journey when you can. 

 Thanks for listening :)  enjoy your banana you filthy heathens 🍌🍌🍌",10,6,13.028617434002184,GradSchool
Writing my SoP vs. Personal Statement,"Hi everyone, I'm procrastinating hard on these essays I need to write for the schools I am applying to for next fall. I'm hung up a bit on writing my Statement of Purpose letter. Most schools really only want one statement but I'm applying to UCLA and they want an SoP AND a Personal Statment. I figured I should start writing for this school first.

How should I approach writing these differently? They seem very similar so im a little confused. Any tips/advice is appreciated!",2,2,13.129335026594777,GradSchool
Dealing with burnout/social exhaustion?,"I'm in the second year of an English program (M.A.) and I'm just exhausted. You know how it goes, grad TAs are overworked and underpaid. 

I teach two sections of writing, and teaching is suddenly taking up my whole life to the point where I feel like I don't have time or energy to do my class work and start my thesis. They expect us to teach these classes like a full professor would and yet I feel like I just don't have the time or energy, not to mention I keep noticing what other grad students are doing with their classes and can't help but feel inadequate. Grading takes up hours and hours alone, and making my own lesson plans (they didn't give us very much) on top of my own readings and such is just getting to be too much. Plus, every time I make a mistake teaching (which I know is inevitable and I shouldn't beat myself up) I just feel like a failure.

As I mentioned, it's hard not to feel inadequate when other student teachers are doing more work than me, because it makes me wonder why I can't force myself to work that hard. People around me will assign more work than I do and I can't understand how they have that much time to grade all that extra work. I just feel so tired and anxious which turns into frustration all the time. I can't stand the people who want to go on to PhDs because they have this air of smugness, like there's something wrong with me for not wanting my whole entire life to revolve around this stuff. I'm not the only one who feels this way, but talking about it with my classmates that also feel burnout just makes the burnout worse. I truly hate spending this much time on teaching because a) I don't want to be a teacher after this and b) I just want to get to the place in my life where I have a job with regular hours and a humane paycheck. What was left of my spirit is breaking. Anyone else feel this way?",1,7,13.149879008076256,GradSchool
Is getting a master’s as miserable as getting a PhD?,"I’m applying to a master’s program for I/O psych. Since I got a bachelor’s degree in psychology, I don’t really see any option for me other than to get a master’s degree. I joined this sub because I wanted to see what it’s like to be in school after undergrad- but honestly from this sub it seems like it’s awful. Are master’s programs less miserable than PhD programs? It seems like many people in this sub are in PhD programs. I guess I just want to prepare myself for the spring (assuming I’m accepted). I have no idea what  to expect. I feel really scared from reading posts here. I’ve been studying for the GRE since June and I was feeling excited for this, but like I said I’m just scared now.",21,3,13.182066508076256,GradSchool
Cohort hangout ideas?? (Los Angeles),So our cohort is planning a group hang out outside of school after the stress of midterms is over.  There’s 26 of us and I wanna throw out some suggestions.  Not just a bar or something typical like that.  We are also around LOs Angeles area so if anyone knows if anything different and unique that’d be helpful! Thanks!,4,0,13.185145211779961,GradSchool
PDF annotating app for iPad/Apple pencil?," I’m currently doing a lot of paper reading. Previously I would print out papers to read and annotate; now I’m trying to form better habits and I’d like to take advantage of my newly obtained iPad + Apple pencil. 

So far I’ve tried the Mendeley app, which I initially chose because I’ve used Mendeley in the past as a reference manager, and my library syncs across multiple devices. However, after trying to do some reading/annotating today, I found that I’d like to be able to actually write on the PDF with my Apple pencil rather than just make a sticky note. Are there any apps that would allow me to do this? I would be okay with separating the reference manager function from the annotation function (and just have 2 separate programs), but it would be very nice not to have to store the PDF files on my iPad. 

Free is ideal, but I’ll bite the bullet for a small cost.

Looking forward to hearing any suggestions, thanks!",5,1,13.219751693261442,GradSchool
Scholarships/aid for professional master’s?,I’m applying to a grad program in North Carolina (UNC Chapel Hill) and am wondering if there are scholarships/grants/other forms of financial aid besides the possibility of specific fellowships from the program. It’s a non-thesis based program (City and Regional Planning) and it would be super helpful if I could apply some outside aid besides potential loans to my costs. Any advice?,0,2,13.234821137705886,GradSchool
My research was a step behind!,"Going to present my work to my supervisor & research team later today, but last night I found similar work has been published last week! So basically I feel my idea has been taken and I don’t know what I should I say later on my presentation! Please advise",5,7,13.240041045113294,GradSchool
Does emailing potential advisors during grad school application season works?,"I'm currently a senior and interested in going to grad school for math Ph.D.. I have read on other places that it's usually a good idea to email potential advisors at programs/schools that one is applying for. So I was wondering that from your experience, as a previous, current Ph.D. student or a professor, does it often result in good results if the student sends out a proper email and he has the relevant background? Also what can be improved during the process?

Thanks!",4,2,13.263710026594776,GradSchool
Econ PhD program selection for work in industry,"I’m fortunate enough to have been sponsored to pursue a PhD in Economics. I have just begun the application process. While I understand that Econ PhDs generally continue in academia or research, I was hoping to work in Finance, IB, or as a corporate economist. I am an Operations Research Analyst by trade, and have a propensity towards machine learning and data science. Does anyone have any insights regarding specific programs that are more tailored towards producing practitioners, or a way I can better posture myself (with respect to what programs I apply to/what I specialize) for follow-on employment in industry?

If I’m in the wrong sub, any direction would be appreciated! Thanks!",0,1,13.296568822891071,GradSchool
You ever just want to give up and go back to delivering pizza?,"I just had a rough meeting with my advisor. Turns out, my assumptions about the chemistry of the system were wrong, and the work I've spent almost a month on is almost meaningless. Also I have to redo a significant part of my analysis because I forgot to include an important element and I feel so dumb. 

Sometimes I think it would be better if I just went back to delivering pizza. Life was so easy, I didn't doubt myself 24/7. It's not hard to be good at delivering pizza. I even did the math, it wouldn't be much of a salary drop. I could make it work. I guess I need someone to talk me out of quitting to deliver pizza for the rest of my life.

Edit: thank you so much for your thoughts and encouragement! I'm feeling much better, and I realize I don't actually want to quit my program. I'm very blessed to be here, and generally things are going well. It's just a nice fantasy sometimes, reliving my glory days of pizza delivery, and sometimes I can get over stressed and over dramatic.",75,375,13.298189193261441,GradSchool
Did you prepare refreshments for your prospectus defense?,I asked several people in the department and some people have and some haven’t so there is no specific tradition established. I would like to prepare some coffee and maybe some scones. But I don’t want it to look like I’m bribing my committee either and also i don’t want them completely distracted while I’m presenting. Your opinion?,10,1,13.318929934002183,GradSchool
"Should I get grad school recommendation letters from old professors or ""professional"" coworkers","I'm looking to apply to grad school to obtain my masters in engineering and it requires 2 letters of recommendation. It states that these can either be from previous professors or current professional coworkers. I'm sure my professors would remember me as I did well in their classes. However, I think my coworkers (my boss and previous boss) would write very good letters. 

Which of these is preferred when applying to grad school? Does one carry more weight than the other?",4,3,13.355376693261443,GradSchool
"Are the Computer Science grad program in Universities of Auckland, Carnterbury and Waikato worth the time and money spent for grad degree?","What are the job prospects in NZ after completing the degree?

What are internship prospects during  completing the degree? 

Which of the three is better in your opinion and why? 

If I get into a grad program in a Canadian university like UBC or UoT- will going to NZ to either one of these instead be worth it?",0,0,13.369890582150331,GradSchool
Why PhD positions in the UK are almost never open to international students?,"I'm looking for a PhD position. I live and study in Europe but my country is not a member of the EU. Considering my interests, the UK seems like a perfect fit. Unfortunately, almost all the funded PhD positions available are available only to UK/EU students. My question is simply: why? I mean, every other country in the EU does not have this kind of restriction. No matter whether it's a graduate school or a single research group.",2,2,13.420341971039221,GradSchool
Is changing PhD University frowned upon?,"Here's the thing. I'm into the first month of my Political Science PhD programme and I just received a better offer from another university. I would like to accept it for several reasons: 1) PhD students at my current university usually graduate in 6 or even 7 years, and I don't want to spend so much time in this country 2) the second university is better ranked 3) the second university provides good connections with think tanks, research centres in my area of study.

However, I am afraid that moving to another university would look bad on my Cv and damage my future research opportunities. What do you think?",4,0,13.614265582150331,GradSchool
‘The way universities are run is making us ill’: inside the student mental health crisis,,50,279,13.673200767335516,GradSchool
How to participate in a seminar when you don’t know what the heck is going on??,"I’m a first year PhD student in a STEM major. We are required to partake in seminars and will be graded based on our participation. Our seminar is tomorrow, and I’m trying to make sense of the article we’re supposed to read to no avail. How am I supposed to participate when I don’t understand the methods they used or the background of the project? Any tips on how to go about making sense of complex papers or how to sound like I know what’s going on during the seminar?",3,5,13.674010952520701,GradSchool
"What are my chances of getting into grad school at UBC, UofT and UWaterloo?","So I realize these are best schools in Canada for Computer Science. I'm looking to get into one of those but I don't know just how it would go.

I want to apply to a masters thesis. 

My GPA is around 3.7 or an A-. I have some very strong recommendations from three PhD professors. One is an expert in AI, another is an expert in Operations Research and Operating Systems and the last one is a PhD in Economics who used to be the director of public education at my country. Got an 8 on the IELTS. 

I don't have any publications, I've never done research work. I do have work experience and I worked as a TA for one of my references. I don't know if that matters very much but there's that.

So do I have a good chance at those universities? Those aren't the only places I am applying to, but the are the ones that interest me the most.",5,2,13.687575767335517,GradSchool
"Tired of professors, postdocs, etc. talking about much worse everything is now","Is this a problem at other schools? How do you deal with it?

It seems like every other conversation is about how shit the undergraduates are or how hard it is to find a well-educated PhD student or postdoc. I (PhD student) got into an argument today 2 postdocs and one of my supervisors - they insisted that education is getting worse (globally!) and made broad vague claims about much better things were 20 years ago and how in \[Country of Origin\] things are like this or that. No awareness that they probably sound exactly like people 20 years ago. One postdoc even started something with ""Its been proven"" so I said ""Send me the paper!"" But saying things like that makes no difference. I actually looked up a paper afterwards ([https://doi.org/10.1080/00036846.2013.868592](https://doi.org/10.1080/00036846.2013.868592)) which contradicts them but I won't send it because I don't want to be petty and even if you refute one point they just make it more specific into something you can't refute (""Yes well but at this university the math curriculum is certainly getting worse"") even if they only have anecdotal evidence. I don't mind if I'm wrong as long as they have actual evidence or even if they were genuinely interested in the education system instead of just shit talking.

I am looking for some sympathy and maybe advice (or critique of my perspective). I find it so frustrating and I don't know how to respond.",22,44,13.716858174742924,GradSchool
Losing your purpose in grad school,"Anybody else feeling this way? How to move past it? Send help, plz.",3,12,13.754115119187368,GradSchool
Advisor Expectations for STEM PhD,"If your advisor asked ""what are your expectations from me as a PI?"" what would you say and why?",1,1,13.758385952520701,GradSchool
Weird decorum question (I'm a grad student/adjunct professor while working on my doctorate in history),"Hey everyone,

Weird decorum question that I've never really considered before but now it made me wonder if perhaps I was violating some unwritten norm. I'm 26 years old, and look like a college freshman based on my baby face (LOL), but I teach college freshmen in a history department. It's always a challenge to get their respect due to my lack of facial hair/the fact I'm also still a student of sorts/and my laconic sense of humor. I teach as an adjunct to make money/experience while working on my history doctorate at a school in my hometown in the south (while I'm still in 'school' in another state while working from home due to family health issues/etc.). I teach two late afternoon sections, and occasionally will do work in the school's predominantly undergraduate library well into the 2:00 A.M. closing time (because, you know, dissertation work is lengthy!). I have my own adjunct office but the history building gets *too* quiet at night and I feel more comfortable in a more crowded building to do work, and my own house is too crowded to focus much.  I walked by a study room in which some of my students were studying for my class's exam around 11:30-12:00 AM and answered a few questions when they asked me. I was trying to be helpful but now I realize based on the hour it feels as if some great barrier of propriety has been crossed, despite this being a public place. Am I overthinking? I don't want my students to feel like they can't approach me in public, but I also don't want them to think I'm just a 'buddy' to hang out with in the library etc.",9,15,13.784797989557738,GradSchool
Masters in American Indian studies - Career Prospects?,"right now i am a junior going for a BS History with a minor in American Indian studies.

I'm finding that I'm really enjoying my Native American classes, so much so that I'm considering doing my historiography essay on the Dakota 38. I'm also taking Lakota language classes 

I've been looking at possibilities for a masters in american indian history.  the nearest college is Bozeman, Montana

I've heard that most who go down this lane tend to become teachers, and which I wouldn't be averse of course. others seem to become lawyers

However, does anyone have information on career prospects? I'd like to be involved somehow..perhaps a cultural liaison, help bring awareness and understanding.",3,3,13.785723915483663,GradSchool
Scholarships for International Students coming to the States,"Hi, Much has been said about US and other students coming to study in Europe. What about scholarships for international students coming to study in the U.S.? What are some resources and ideas to explore, granted one already checked out the desired institutions and still need a lot of fin aid? Thank you.",11,8,13.83795771177996,GradSchool
Feeling useless...," 

I just do not know what to feel...I had a horrible day and feel so insecure of myself and who I am as a person. I thought grad school was going fine but I just got an email from someone that told me to redo a test that I had taken because I apparently really screwed it up. Despite during feedback after my session they said I did a great job. I feel useless. I feel stupid, and every word in the book. I went through so much adversity to get to grad school and I just screwing everything up. Fuck....

To give bit a of background: I have really bad anxiety and depression when I get emotional from prior trauma. My anxiety in general has been terrible since starting grad school. I went to therapy for a year prior to starting grad school during my gap year in between my undergrad and had it pretty under control prior to starting my program, but I been going to therapy on and off for a couple of years, since I was in middle school. I was in two abusive relationships when I was in my undergrad; i.e. one was physically violence/sexual violence and the other was manipulative and controlling and attempt suicide to make me stay with him. After those experience I stop dating and focus on getting into grad school and I was able to get into a doctorate program after my undergrad, but I feel like I am just an impostor. I don't deserve to be here and everything I went through has damaged me to the point where I feel like I wont be able to to deal with pressure. I cant go to a counselor or psych clinic on campus because I am in the psychology department. Also my program is in a small town and I do not who to talk about this with.

How do I deal with this....I just keep feeling like I am just an idiot.",4,13,13.842992434002182,GradSchool
Recommender asked for Letter of Rec mock draft?,"Hi all! 

&#x200B;

I was hoping if anyone had any experience with the above question. I went to ask a PI whom I've worked professionally with for the past year for a letter of recommendation for a Public Health grad program I am interested in. He said that his time at UBoston and Harvard-the formality was for the student to draft a mock letter of recommendation first as well as a CV. The recommender would then add/edit/change whatever and submit their final version 

&#x200B;

I've never had a recommender do this and I am not sure the most appropriate way to format this letter. Letters of Rec ""examples"" online vary in it's formality and content. Has anyone had experience with how to make a body letter for something like this? 

&#x200B;

Thanks!",5,4,13.92147623029848,GradSchool
How do you feel with wanting to quit/missing home?,"How do you deal with homesickness/wanting to quit?

I moved to a new city by myself to start my masters (two year program). It’s about 2500km from home but not easy to travel back and forth (direct flights aren’t available so I have to travel to a different city’s airport, and the flights are expensive...driving/train/etc is not an option).

I lived in my home province all throughout my undergrad and it’s where my family, friends, pets, and partner are located (we’re doing LDR). 

The program itself is demanding but I know I can handle it. I like the course material so far, and have made friends in my program that I hang out with regularly. I also got involved with activities and groups within my department so I am kept busy and not isolated.

I’m adjusting to the city a bit and it’s okay here. Nothing is wrong, so why do I want to go home so bad? I don’t even hate it here, but I just feel so wrong about living in this city and being here. I’m terribly, terribly homesick— no one here knows about my hometown and it’s extremely different so it feels like I am trying to adjust to a new culture. Everyday I feel like I want to quit, not because I hate my program but because I hate not living back home. The thought of doing this for another two years is very difficult to comprehend. It doesn’t feel right and I want this program but I do not want to be in this city. 

How do you guys deal with the feeling? It feels like I picked out a new pair of shoes that were a good price and looked really nice but now I’m wearing them and they’re four sizes too small. When does this go away?",7,18,13.97710123029848,GradSchool
I completely forgot about a HW assignment,"I'm in grad school now. I'm doing my best but I fucked up and completely forgot about an assignment for one of my classes. The syllabus says that no late work is accepted especially without a timely and appropriate excuse. Do I accept this and move on and try to do better or do I let my professor know that I screwed up and ask for another chance? I don't know what's appropriate at this level. Any guidance is really appreciated 'cause I'm kicking myself.

Update: I asked my prof after class if I could possibly turn it in late and he was super chill about it and told me to email it to him tomorrow. Thanks for your replies!!",7,4,13.989277156224405,GradSchool
"I'm an undergrad with a really REALLY bad transcript, how good (or bad) does grad school look for me?","Hey everyone, I'm in a bit of a rough spot. During my freshman year of college, I was sexually assaulted and as a result of me not having the best coping skills, I took a bunch of W's and a couple of straight-up F's in my sophomore year. I was able to get it together during my junior year but after the unexpected deaths of two loved ones, I took some more W's to lessen the burden of focusing on both school and my overall wellbeing. I have retaken all of the classes that I failed and was able to do grade replacements for them, and I received A's in all of the retakes. Currently I have like 12 W's, a major GPA of 3.75, and a cumulative GPA of 3.15. I expect the cumulative to end up at 3.3 by the end of this semester. I will be graduating in May 2020.

I don't plan to attend any fancy-shmancy institution, most likely UNM, which is where I'm already doing my undergrad. How screwed am I, and what are my options?

Edit: I am currently majoring in English and am thinking about either the English or Sociology grad programs.",8,2,14.029196137705886,GradSchool
Trying not to give up,"I have seven months before I graduate from my masters degree (6 if you take out going home for winter vacation and probably ending early in April) but I am struggling. I have had really bad anxiety and am seeing a counselor for it. While it has not affected my schoolwork it is hard to work through panic attacks and trauma without a support system. My entire family and core friend group is on the other side of the country - a 6 hour flight away. I want to push through but the next 6/7 months seem daunting in the shadow of my anxiety. 

&#x200B;

What advice would you give someone trying to push through.",8,13,14.10116373029848,GradSchool
How do I finish my paper while still not being done reading?,"I have a general sense of what my hypotheses are, the main papers that relate to my theory, etc.

However, I am not done with all the reading I wanted to have done by this point and I need to submit something by december.

Can anyone give me advice? I don't read or write as often and enough as I should so that's why I haven't developed strong habits yet. Thank you very much",3,4,14.151406785854036,GradSchool
can't read unless printed out?,"I'm not sure if this is a thing but I can't read the papers books etc that I need to read unless I print them out properly, and this is stupid sometimes because some PDFs have internal hyperlinks that would allow you to click around within the document and PDFs allow you to Ctrl+F things.

But anyway, for people who also feel this way:

* what do you do with the documents you print out after you finished reading them, esp. when you have to move to a new place (across the country, to another continent etc.) 
* and what do you do with the notes you take 
* do you have a filing system
* do you try to train yourself to read on a screen instead of printing things out, why / why not?",8,7,14.157124378446628,GradSchool
I figured there would be some great advice here also.,,0,0,14.247656785854035,GradSchool
University of Virginia MSBA,"Does anyone here have any insights into the University of Virginia's MSBA program? Looks interesting but its also pretty new. Any information on program quality or what it is like?

[https://msba.virginia.edu](https://msba.virginia.edu)",1,0,14.248582711779962,GradSchool
NDSEG Research Proposal 2019,"Hi all,

I can't seem to find any information about this on the subreddit or elsewhere so I figured I'd ask. I'm a second-year graduate student looking to apply to the NDSEG graduate DoD fellowship. As most are probably aware, NDSEG has changed its site to [https://ndseg.sysplus.com/](https://ndseg.sysplus.com/) from past years. 

I would like to start putting together a research proposal for this year, and I have found a BAA number and interest in my topic, but I cannot seem to find anything about the length and/or structure of the research proposal. All I see on the application is ""Upload your research proposal in PDF Format using the following file name format: Lastname\_Firstname\_ResearchProposal.""

From past posts and past years, it seems that there is a 3 page limit, which is helpful, but it bothers me that I cannot find any information about requirements for this years round of applications.

Any experience with this or knowledge about something I'm missing is greatly appreciated. Thanks!",2,1,14.276487804372552,GradSchool
Do I talk to my PI about this?,"So... I finally mustered the strength and courage to get onto some anti-anxiety medication because I definitely think I needed it (yay better living through modern chemistry), but the adjustment period for these kinds of medications can take \~6 weeks. So that's 6 weeks of potential side effects that could impact my research performance... do I talk to my adviser about this ahead of time so he knows what's what? Or do I wait and just push through? He isn't an aggressively pushy guy by any means, and we seem to have a really good rapport, but talking to supervisors about mental health is always tricky :/",5,10,14.294508637705887,GradSchool
Any inaight would be appreciated,"So guys, I graduated with an undergrad in May. My second to last semester I started looking into graduate programs, i found one and a potential advisor i really liked. I emailed him and got prompt responses, i even met with him over 2018 xmas break. He is in a school in Canada and i was in Texas at the time. 

The meeting seemed fine. We talked about the program, and how grad school in Canada is different than in the US. He ended the meeting by saying to reach back out to him once i graduated and got my PR for Canada. Side note: he was looking at the computer screen and not at me when he said it, it felt a bit disingenuous, but i brushed it off.

Fast forward to may. I have my degree and PR for Canada. I email him and nothing. Its been 5 months and I'm going ahead with the application process. The dept head told me to tell him I'm beginning the process; so i send him another email. Nothing. 

Is he saying he doesn't want anything to do with me? Or is he maintaining distance for professional reasons? I'm really confused and anxious.",6,1,14.29764521177996,GradSchool
Grad school can be very stressful and it can be hard to find the time/energy to go out all the time. What relaxing hobbies do you swear by on a rainy day?,"Over the last couple of years, I've realised having activities outside of your research and your department/cohort is really important to staying sane. Of course there are loads of sports and outside social groups you can be involved in, but sometimes you just want to stay at home by yourself and do some low-energy stuff. 

Personally: I tried out knitting recently. It's incredibly relaxing and fits the bill perfectly (for me). 

What de-stressing activities would you suggest to the new (or returning) students?",61,44,14.314080396965146,GradSchool
Advice For TA for Fresher,I'll be joining Masters program in Fall 2020. I heard that professors allow students from the second semester for Teaching Assistantship. Is there any way I can get the Teaching assistantship from the first semester?,6,0,14.325006322891072,GradSchool
Knowing what to do,"I’ve really been struggling lately about getting things done. Some background, I struggle from depression and anxiety and have been seeking help to get those under control

My real problem is knowing what to get done. I’ve treated the first years of my PhD program like I did undergrad, focusing on classes and such. This helped because there was a clear to do list throughout the semester with solid deadlines. 

Working on my own things have been more difficult. I try to make a to do list for both the week, month, and long term but even just starting those is paralyzing. I guess I don’t even know what I have to do. So how do you all get that started? Do you talk to anyone about what needs to get done or is it just something comes to y’all naturally. I wonder if this is an outcome of that anxiety.

Thanks for your help in advance!",3,1,14.339138267335516,GradSchool
Chem Grad Student - Need some grad student guidance,"Hey everyone, 

I’m in an interesting predicament and am hoping that you guys can give me some much needed advice! 

I’m a second year PhD student in chemistry. I am supposed to take a preliminary exam this semester to continue on to the next qual exam in the spring. After having been here for about 3 semesters, I’ve realized that research just isn’t for me. I’ve done really well in TAing and in my classes and overall things are going well except for the research. My PI is never around and I feel as though I am left to drown in my own project. With classes, TAing, etc. I don’t have all the time in the world to troubleshoot my issues and therefore I make zero progress on my project. 

So here’s where I’m unsure about how to go about things: 
In the handbook, it states that if you fail the preliminary exam “the student will be removed from the PhD program. The student may continue in the masters program.” So my question is, do I try to pass the preliminary exam knowing that I don’t want a PhD, or do I let a committee member know that I can confide in to tell them what’s going on? After this semester, I’m 11 credits away from a course work MS and am hoping I can go that route. I am funded with my TA job, and not sure if I’d lose my funding for the spring semester or not. Because I know I don’t want a PhD, I feel as though I am wasting my time and my committee’s time for studying for exams I don’t need to get me closer to my overall goal. 

I appreciate any advice that anyone could provide. This has been bugging me for awhile and I have no idea who to speak to or how to proceed from here.",4,2,14.374138267335518,GradSchool
"Screwed Up Really Bad, Need Advice","Background that may or may not be relevant:

A lot of stressful things were happened this past week; and a combination of that, very busy schedule, and the fact my pharmacy screwed up so I hadn’t taken one of my medications since last Wednesday, meant that I was a lot dumber than usual. I have to manage several mental illnesses and am currently in survival mode just trying to prevent a full blown episode.

The problem:
So because of the above, my cognitive skills are definitely suffering. At the same time all this is happening Im trying to complete a poster to present at a conference next weekend. There were a series of emails between my advisor and I were I made mistake after mistake; I forgot to attach a document, then I overlooked comments he made, then I didn’t edit the text right having read the comments. Just really bad and unprofessional and Im cringing as Im writing this thinking about it. 

My advisor finally got fed up and told me he is considering nixing the poster and not letting me present because Im “not taking things seriously.” I can’t even blame him. Without knowing the above context I really do look like a slacking a-hole.

I wrote him a sincere apology and explained some of the circumstances, (but left any mention of mental illness out.) I’m really worried that it won’t be enough though, and I’m totally devastated and angry at myself for screwing up and being so unprofessional. Is there anything else I can do to salvage this situation???",4,6,14.374392896965146,GradSchool
ETS with a hilarious tweet this morning.,https://twitter.com/ETSInsights/status/1176516430520561664?s=20,68,188,14.394693822891071,GradSchool
Who here works full time? Can you talk about your experience?,"Hi all, 

I have both an MA in anthropology and an MHP. With two masters degrees, I have been working in an organization I wanted to be in but have found an increasing interest in the policies that are related to my two subfields. I am thinking about going back for a PhD in Public Policy, but I am worried about additional coursework because my masters degrees are not policy related. I have talked to multiple people who have started a PhD while working full time and all encourage me to go ahead and apply. FWIW, I found my other graduate degrees to be enjoyable and motivating. I worked part time, had an internship, and had an assistantship and never had to pull an all nighter. I'm just not really sure what to expect.",1,1,14.403397526594775,GradSchool
What makes a good grad student??,What makes a MA or a PhD a good student? How do people get those A’s? What are some tips and tricks you have learned along the way that you can share to help?,12,10,14.533293359928107,GradSchool
"I messed up --- Dear Dr. A, Dear Dr. B, ...",Accidentally left the name of another guy in the email to a prospective internship PI. Can I fix this?,5,2,14.553999378446628,GradSchool
Devices for reading on the go?,"I spent a considerable amount of time traveling (but not driving, so I'm free to work), but my laptop is too big to open in most places, and my phone is too small. I want any device where I can read papers and annotate (highlight and add notes--these don't need to be handwritten; the kind you do in GNOME's PDF viewer is fine), ideally pretty cheap. Suggestions?",6,2,14.634138267335516,GradSchool
"That’s my secret, I’m always anxious- the credible hulk",,0,1,14.651441508076257,GradSchool
Tips on best way to work towards becoming a professor?,"Future grad student here.

After a couple years in industry, I’ve decided that I will most likely prefer a career in academia over this. Obviously I haven’t started my graduate program yet so I may come off as naïve, but assuming I still want to be a prof in the future, how would you guys recommend I approach grad school? Normally? Focus more on finding project ideas? Etc.
I’m no stranger to working day and night consistently and I fully expect to have to bust my ass off, so if possible, are there any helpful tips other than study/work hard?",3,2,14.795758637705886,GradSchool
"Have you ever loved what you're learning on a conceptual level, but absolutely hate the bench work?","I'm in a genetics and genome biology program. And while I love what I'm learning about on a conceptual and theoretical level, I just absolutely can't stand doing bench work. Wet labs really fucking bum me out. No matter how intellectually stimulating something is, I just can't stand sitting in a lab pipetting things for hours, and it's not something I can see myself doing the rest of my life. I can't seem to bridge this disconnect. Has anyone else experienced this, and have any advice besides ""do computational work""?",28,47,14.913490119187367,GradSchool
Help please!,"I am an undergrad looking into grad school and I have two questions. Is doing your undergrad and graduate work at the same school truly bad and second, Is it worth it? I have some doubts which I have never had about grad school so I am struggling right now.",3,0,14.954647526594774,GradSchool
Weak mentorship...,"Holy shit. How do you all deal with this?
Words of strength appreciated. 
Sorry for the vaguepost.  At the end of my rope most days, but especially today.",9,0,14.969902156224405,GradSchool
Reading and taking notes on papers,"Hi r/GradSchool

I'm looking for a way to improve my reading experience. Right now I'm using Mendeley to organize all my papers but I think the notetaking and highlighting are not good enough to memorize everything that I read. I've tried to make notes using the build-in notes tab but then they are searchable. Also, it quite hard for me to keep track of a reading list and a must-read list, the built-in feature to me is not good enough (that green singn)  
I was wondering, what do you use to read papers and take notes? What's your workflow to read and take notes and make sure you keep all the information well organized and easy to search? Also what do you do to make sure you remember everything you read.

I've heard about Paperly which I think is a pdf reader and note-taking app oriented towards researchers, anyone has some thoughts on this app? Is it nice and worth?",1,1,14.979103545113293,GradSchool
Teaching tips and tricks?,I'm teaching a portion of a course (first year) for the first time this year. Just stuff like scientific writing and basic data analysis/excel skills. Wondering if anybody has any fun exercises they like to do with students? I'm also looking for specific direction on how to explain what goes in a figure caption...I don't quite grasp how students don't understand!,0,1,14.979647526594775,GradSchool
Does anyone know of any ways to get assistance for PhD applications?,I am starting my applications for sociology PhD programs and I was wondering if anyone knew of ways to bring down application fees other than asking programs individually. I know of a few programs that encouraged woman to go to business school by helping pay for applications are there things like that for woman in social sciences specifically sociology?,3,1,15.009381322891073,GradSchool
"Ex-supervisor who was abusive towards me, our relationship ended on a very bad note, and due to this am needing to take extra time in program- died suddenly ... having really difficult time processing.","Hi all,

My ex supervisor died suddenly last week and I’m having such a hard time coming to terms with everything. 

I got into my program to study something very specific that I’m super passionate about and she was the only person in the dept that did that research. I was accepted into my program with her and I was over the moon and so thrilled to start research in my passion. I stayed with her for 2 years and it was awful. I learned very quickly she had a severe alcoholism problem and because of this was extremely abusive and could not perform her duties. 

She would call me in the middle of the night yelling at me about an abstract or draft she thought she asked me to do (which ofc she didn’t). She would dump all her work on me and my lab mates and take credit for it. She would spend almost all meetings taking about herself - so nothing got done or delegated. She came to campus drunk and told many times to go home. She would have a lot of falls and accidents because of her alcoholism and thus very flakey and was inconsistent on coming to work. We were all yelled at repeatedly because of how disorganized and awful things had become and deadlines were legit the next day but she would forget about them and force us to work all night to get things done. 

I called it quits when she forced me to take on multiple honours students to work on their projects when my own work was no where not even on her radar by yelling at me me “you do whatever the fuck I tell you to do” this was the last words I heard from her while walking out the room. 

This was a year and a bit ago and I had to restart with another supervisor, which meant that I had to give up my research passion and do other work. It’s going fine because my supervisor is great but knowing I’m not pursuing my passion because of her still eats at me. 

We all got an email last week informing the dept that she had died suddenly by falling and hitting her head. 

This is shocking and so sudden. I don’t really know how to feel. I feel sad that is how she went and that she had such severe issues that she couldn’t address properly. I’m sad her legacy in the end was of an alcoholic who most of the students poked fun at and gossiped about because of how abusive and awful she had become. I’m sad that we never got a chance to repair our relationship but it’s also so complex because I still feel wronged by what she did. I’m sad for her kids now now don’t have a mom. But I’m sad for her that she couldn’t get better that she was suffering that much. I just hope she’s at peace now but I’m still feeling so conflicted.

Has anyone been in a similar situation? Not even with a faculty but someone you know that died but you had a bad relationship with?",4,3,15.015642896965147,GradSchool
Changing Fields -- Certificate to Masters?,"So I am a prospective ""older student"" who earned a B.A. in Film/Video in 2007. I am now interested in changing careers and going back to school. I have been talking with a local school about entering their Environmental Conservation program as a 2nd bachelors. I am planning to start taking a couple pre-reqs for the program that I didn't already have (Precalc, Chemistry, GIS). 

However, someone brought up to me it might be a better investment of my time to earn a post-baccalaureate certificate instead and apply to a masters program. I know going from art to science is a big jump. I am wondering if anyone has experience changing fields this way and applying to a masters program with a certificate vs. a bachelor's in the proper field? Do graduate schools accept this generally?",0,2,15.035504008076257,GradSchool
My advisor hates me: a rant,"Mostly the title says it all. I'm in the 5th year of my 3-year MFA (terminal degree in my field). I had to take time off because my fiancé became disabled and we couldn't afford to eat, let alone fund my thesis. This is my first time at a private institution, and it turns out they aren't very good at dealing with students on food stamps. 

My program is small. 2 students per year small, and I was the only one admitted my year. I am not the type of personality my advisor likes. She is insanely skilled, but she and I simply do not operate the same way.

I was told by a predecessor to watch out because she usually picks a ""scapegoat"" to despise, pick on, and generally make their life hell. Turns out its me. From someone who I expected to be my mentor, I got...I don't  know. I'm going to have to unpack it in therapy.

She is not only my advisor, but the only advisor for the program AND the head of the program. She is the head of my reading committee. She has the final say on whether or not I get my MFA.

Anyway, this is my writing warm up before I dive into working on my paper for the rest of the evening. I'm not going to let that bitch win without a fight.",5,2,15.057888267335516,GradSchool
Debating whether I should transfer between undergrad Universities,"So right now I'm a first year student at Texas State University majoring in Computer Science but I'm seriously considering a double major with Chemistry because I want to do computational research. However, I kind of want to try and transfer to Texas A&M for fall 2020, but if I do so I would have to minor in chemistry rather than major. So I'm wondering if I apply to grad school, would if look better to have two degrees from Texas State, or a degree with a minor at A&M?",1,0,15.075006322891072,GradSchool
Language habits for stress reduction,"I’m a STEM PhD student who is graduating soon. Here are some habits I’ve adopted to possibly ease stress, increase feelings of competence and combat imposter syndrome. I’m curious if anyone else has modified their language in a similar way.

1. Avoid the word should at all costs. Even if you made a mistake you don’t really need to chastise yourself for it. “Should” indicates there’s some standard that you’re failing to meet.

2. Don’t apologize unless you’re truly sorry and would go back and do things differently.

3. Don’t justify yourself unless necessary. 

4. I try not to say “I will do x.” How do you know you will do it.. you can certainly plan to do something but who knows what will happen. 


Not saying these are universal but I feel like they’ve helped me move  toward preferable narratives about myself.

Happy gradschoolin y’all

Edit: grammar, typos",25,205,15.104416045113293,GradSchool
Almost done with my qualifying exams. Suggestions for when I'm done?,"I'm posting today because I'm now finished with three of my fours qualifying exams for my PhD candidacy. I think I did ok on the one I took today. It took me almost the entire four hours allotted and I wrote nearly thirteen pages. I have one more exam on Thursday. I'm almost done. Whether I pass or not, I've almost gotten through it. I've had so many breakdowns and panic attacks this semester while preparing. It has been so rough.

This weekend I want to do something just to celebrate finishing, even though I won't know if I've passed for a few more weeks. I would love some suggestions!",6,2,15.154624378446627,GradSchool
What's a normal writing speed for y'all?,"If I have all the research already done, I can pretty consistently do 5 pages, double spaced, in 3 hours. That seems pretty slow to me, though, and I wondered how quickly you all could turn around 5 pages.",5,1,15.155388267335518,GradSchool
just another sad post.,"I've had to change the focus of my thesis so many times. it's my 4th ""narrow it down"" try right now. I feel stupid, I feel dumb, I feel like I am one of the few people in my MA program that doesn't know what to do and at this point I'm too ashamed/embarassed to ask for help.

it's not the first time that I've had this problem: I am constantly being told that I am too unfocused in my writing, that I mention 5 different mildly interesting things, when I really need to focus on ONE and go IN DEPTH with it.

I had submitted my introduction and part of my second chapter to my thesis advisor and was told how derivative it was, it wasn't an original idea, etc. They said it in a fairly nice way; I know they're trying to help. But I am just SO tired of writing and rewriting and I am worried that I've gotten to the point where I don't want to write anymore.

I am in a 2 year program that, due to some problems with the program itself and what feels like my own incompetence, I've had to stretch to another semester. With these rewrites and new ideas, plus rewriting most of what I already have, it might have to stretch to another year, not just a semester.

I am upset.",3,3,15.165006322891072,GradSchool
Are you ever so burnt out you misread something?,"My professor posted 3 prompts for our upcoming paper. I read them over, thought about it, read it over again and decided on one. I posted it below. 

>To what extent do the scholar seem intent upon stressing continuity in the face of changes to the lives in worlds of Native Americans?

While brainstorming and trying to think of a thesis sentence, I asked a classmate if she thought my argument about stressing the importance of community because it showed X, Y, Z and she responds ""sure but make sure you discuss the continuity of it too""

What? What is she talking about?

Well... Turns out this dumb dumb kept reading  ""continuity"" as ""community"". And I read each prompt over like 3x 🤦🏻‍♀️

Time for a mental break.",1,4,15.192564193261443,GradSchool
Budgeting for Grad School,"Hey guys! I'll be moving for grad school to the UK (MSc. Marketing & Strategy). Even though I am yet to hear back from the universities, I am confident I'll get in...so, I decided to come up with a budgeting scheme in order to have a smooth transition into the whole thing.  I was wondering if you guys could help me take into account things I may have missed or estimated lower than I should.

Course: MSc. Marketing & Strategy

Duration: 1 year

Possible Locations: Coventry/Glasgow (depending on where I choose to get into)

Adjustments-

1. Taken highest tuition fee of all the universities i've applied to. 
2. operating under the assumption that no scholarship has been received. 
3. calculating for a period of 12 months. 

I request you to please help me consider any other unexpected costs that may crop-up as an international student, irrespective of whether it's a recurring or a non-recurring expense.

&#x200B;

|Particulars|Amount (GBP)|
|:-|:-|
|Flight tickets form home home country (one-way)|400|
|Insurance & Visa|1850|
|Tuition fee (assuming no scholarship)|28500|
|Exam fees|180|
|Winter wear|500|
|Food (190/month x 12 months)|2280|
|Commute (50/month x 12 months)|600|
|laundry/ stationery/toiletries (50/month x 12 months)|600|
|Telephone & internet (40/month x 12 months )|480|
|Entertainment (120/month x 12 months)|1440|
|Utilities (excluding telephone & internet) (40/month x 12  months)|480|
|Rent (170/week x 52 weeks)|8840|
|Books|400|
|Laptop + phone (including student discount)|3757|
|UK Travel|1000|
|Total|51307|",4,1,15.213443822891072,GradSchool
How to respond to edits?,"Simple question: When you get a paper back from someone with ~~crossout~~ /replace style edits, what do you do besides accepting their replacement text?

This question is inspired by the anxious feeling that I haven't done anything when ""responding to comments"" besides clicking ""accept revisions"" over and over.",2,2,15.249439193261441,GradSchool
"My grad school journey up to this day, abridged","Bottom line: I believe that everything is part of God's plan. If you're not religious, this may sound silly to you, but I don't think there's another explanation for how everything worked out.

Prologue: I came into grad school wanting to do analog design. As an undergrad, circuits and electronics were my favorite thing ever. My GPA and GRE scores were terrible, so I knew that the only way to get into the program of my dreams was to have a professor accept me as a PhD student. That professor was my advisor. He was so cool, it seemed, despite me not having research experience or relevant industry experience.

Chapter 1: I was so happy to be learning the fundamentals and getting some exposure to research. My advisor was a much more serious guy than when we first met, but I think it had to do with the fact that now it's strictly business. I was working, learning, taking classes, he'd remind me to focus on classes, and things were okay.

Chapter 2, part 1: 1.5 years in, my advisor put me on a serious project midway through the fourth semester. I was already drowning; I had two *heavy* classes (that he told me to take), and I was also his TA. On top of that, my husband was having some weird health issues (he's infinitely better now, thank God). On top of that, I lacked the necessary background for the project. Thus came constant scolding, belittling, and I became so numb to his anger that it wasn't affecting me anymore. On top of that, I was not motivated (he never motivated me; he would discourage me), and I felt like I had zero direction. Any idea I had on top of that, he would dismiss. ""That's irrelevant."" ""You're distracting yourself with this."" ""This isn't publishable material."" ""That's not a contribution.""

Chapter 2, part 2: Once the semester ended, I was able to focus more on my research. There was a big gap between where I was and where I needed to be, and I was trying *hard* to close the gap. However, the project's speed didn't stop for me (very understandably so), and the professors have already devised an idea. So at that point there was not much that I could do other than optimize what they already had and implement that on chip. My advisor would tell me, ""You're not being a PhD student; you're being a technician."" ""You are expected to come up with your own ideas instead of waiting for us to tell you what to do next."" ""You are just doing what you are told."" ""You don't need the label of a PhD student if you're doing what a technician would do."" ""If I can do in an hour what you're doing in four days, why am I asking you to do it?"" Although he's technically in the right, it's not exactly helping me that he keeps dismissing my ideas and I can never meet his unrealistic expectations of me. I'm not a genius. I don't have decades of industry experience. I will always be lagging behind in some way. He also said ""At this rate, I don't see a PhD happening with you. You can always do an MS and make a minor contribution. There are still as many jobs.""

Chapter 2, part 3: I was a fool to think things were going to get better. In fact, after I submitted the tapeout, he said ""Your contribution has been minimal. This is not the contribution of a PhD student. I don't want to completely dismiss you; I want to talk about some options first. You can still work on this project, but I will only continue to support you if you become an MS student. You can also do an MEng, which is still an advanced degree. You can also continue your PhD under a different advisor. Either way is fine with me. So, think about it, and let me know. Consider this final block for this project your last chance, and it can be your MS thesis."" It's clear my advisor doesn't believe in me. So I thought, ""I can just get my MS under him and continue my PhD elsewhere."" But I don't want to deal with him much longer. And I didn't know who to turn to.

Chapter 3, part 1: My friend had his prelim last week, and his friend had pretty much the exact same experience. I call that guy my guardian angel. Then he told me who to go to and why to go there. So I took his advice because my current advisor is a jerk and I don't see a fruitful future in academia if I continue in analog design. For the latter, here is why. To publish a paper in analog,

1. come up with the circuit/technique
2. simulate it and change it until it works with the results you need
3. lay it out
4. pass all fabrication checks (DRC)
5. pass the comparison between layout and schematic connections (LVS)
6. simulate the layout extraction (post-layout sim)
7. change the layout until you get the results you need while not violating any of the DRC/LVS checks
8. send the chip for fabrication and wait for them to send it back to you (in my case, it takes 6 months just for fabrication due to the BiCMOS process)
9. design the PCB
10. send the PCB over for fabrication and wait for them to send it back to you
11. once you get the chip, send it out for dicing/packaging (they bond the pads to the pins) and wait for them to send it back to you
12. send your chip with your PCB to a facility so they can put it together and wait (or DIY but the former is recommended)
13. get the measurements from the lab
14. start writing the manuscript

After that, you know what's next. But steps 1-13 altogether take *at least* a year. In a year, I could be publishing new ideas! The analog program here is tailored more for the industry, not academia--and if I wanted to work in the industry, I would've gotten my MEng and gotten out of there. I want to use this opportunity as a PhD student to start building my CV *before* I graduate, not after.

Chapter 3, part 2: My research interests for that reason have taken a divergent path into KLJN electronics. I talked to the professor my guardian angel recommended, and he is actively doing research in that area, it turns out. He accepted me as kind of a refugee PhD student, so once this semester is over, I'll be working with him. I talked to my advisor about this and he took it very well; the only things he needs from me before we part ways are the converter and the report. I also wanted to make sure I wasn't making the same mistake; my future advisor's students are happy to work with him, he works actively with his students, and he is super encouraging. I could be wrapping up with an MS thesis, but I don't want to deal with my current advisor for longer than I need to.

TL;DR: Because of my present and future, I made big decisions.",2,4,15.269531785854035,GradSchool
Stipend Tax Question,"I'm a first year PhD student in MA, and I noticed my first few paychecks did not have any taxes taken out. I'm putting aside about a third of the payment amount for when Uncle Sam comes knocking in April, but I'm worried I'm not putting aside enough (I don't understand finances for shit--that's why I'm a scientist lol). I tried asking my University already, and apparently they are not allowed to give any kind of tax advice whatsoever. I was hoping for some guidance from people who have been in this situation before, so I don't end up owing come tax season.   


Thanks in advance for any replies!",5,2,15.345642896965147,GradSchool
Directionless,"For the past couple of months I have just felt directionless. Progress is halted to a zero. I have results, but all negative results showing progression on the project is not likely. I have talked about being miserable about this project with my P.I. but every time she says stay with it a little longer. I give an academic progress report to committee in the upcoming weeks and just don't care if i pass and stay in the program. I like my P.I., but she is new and just don't feel like there is a tone stability with her changing her mind a lot. I just feel like im in a funk, and cant get out; i was wondering if anyone has any experience in this?",10,37,15.36270308215033,GradSchool
Springer Journal Viewing and Approving PDF,"This might be a very dumb question but I would love if somebody could please put me at ease.  


I have just gone through the process of submitting my first paper to Springer. The ""build PDF"" automatically took place and now I'm supposed to view it and approve it. I have included my main tex file properly named and as ""manuscript"". When I view the PDF however, it is just the raw tex file. I'm not sure if this is intended or if it's supposed to automatically generate the PDF like when you download PDF straight from Overleaf. I'm not sure if I'm approving my tex file or if something went wrong with the compiling.  


Thanks very much in advance",3,2,15.695758637705886,GradSchool
Contacting potential advisors before applying?,"Ok so I've been told that one of the best ways to get into grad school is to contact a potential advisor. This way you've got someone on the inside rooting for you.

Well, I'm not really sure how I would do this. I'd be an international student to Canada. I don't have research experience. I am applying to masters' degrees with thesis options to several universities.

My profile is pretty good, I've got good grades, letters of recommendation from two PhDs, one an expert in AI and the other an expert in Operating Systems and Operations Research. I've also got a letter from an Economics professor from another university, he was also the director of public education in my country.

However, I'm not entirely sure what to say, I could mention those people, but it seems to me that's more for an admissions committee than for a potential advisor.

I would appreciate any advice how to go about this.",5,1,15.714196137705885,GradSchool
Drop out or stay MS in Forest Resources Management,"So I'm currently 5 weeks deep in my masters program at an esteemed forestry school. Full tuition scholarship and very generous stipend. 22 years old and fresh graduate with a dual degree B.S. Geology and B.S. Geographic Information Systems with honors. I wasn't too sure what I wanted to be doing after undergrad and applied only to this program and was super excited by the opportunity. I'm paying nothing to go to this great school and get this degree. I've already been told what my thesis will be and it's fairly interesting but I am struggling to invest. The content isn't an issue and I'm not struggling too hard to comprehend anything. I'm really just struggling to invest in being here. Nothing seems super appealing and I'm wondering if maybe I just enjoyed the idea of this degree more than anything. I'm sitting on assignments and doing everything last minute instead of in well structured time because I just can't force myself into making a true engagement or investment of the work. I really don't know or think that I want to be a forester which it seems that everyone in this degree wants to be. I would much rather work in planning and policy and I had previously told myself that this would be my avenue to the more environmental oriented careers. 

I've been riddled with anxiety since I moved into my apartment. I'm signed into my lease in this city and living with two undergrad friends but I just don't know if I'm happy here. I previously withdrew from this school in August starting my freshman year and I have been excited about returning to finally get a degree from here. I'm just not sure what to do and am currently sitting on the fence 50/50 about whether to withdraw or stay. If I withdraw I would be looking for a job to pay off my $25,000 in undergrad loans and then to pay for this rent somehow if I can't find a sublettor. I guess I'm really just searching for advice or if anyone has a similar story.",4,1,15.872402156224407,GradSchool
Switching Dissertation Topic,"Hi Scholars...

Well... After 4, yes 4 back to back terms of working on my prospectus, I have decided to abandon the project and change my chairperson because I just couldn't get past the initial phase. The kicker is that I am forbidden to take any of my work, or even address a similar topic with anyone else since the first chairperson claims this is his intellectual property. This is extremely discouraging... Has anyone else had to do this? Any advice?",1,4,15.903038730298478,GradSchool
The never-ending trek to the M.A.,"Evening all!  I'm a 2nd year Ph.D. student in anthropology.  I came into graduate school a little over a year ago having gotten my B.A. in December 2017.  I'm incredibly happy to have the opportunity to be here working on my project and taking classes, but having been here for over a year now, it seems like I don't have much to show for it.  

I'm planning on having my Master's Thesis done in 2020 - either May or December, but they both seem incredibly far away.  Does anyone have any tips on how to stay sane while I keep working and waiting for that time when I can say I have a degree to show for the work I've been doing?  Thanks all, and have a great week!",1,0,15.980550304372555,GradSchool
Caught in an endless loop of aimless reading - Please help!,"I am completely dumbfounded how hard it is to stop reading every goddam paper even tangentially related to my research project. And then I don't manage to write anything down so it just becomes a massive waste of time. At the end of it I always feel like shit, even though it feels productive in the moment. I end up with a larger vocabulary and thats it.

What can I change about my mindset going forward to avoid wasting time in this manner? 

Right now I feel like my current task is so poorly defined, but I know that the overall goal is to find a model that can output a spectral function that has qualitatively similar features to experimental data. All the other recent papers have used models similar to mine and haven't gotten remotely close to replicating the experimental data. 

 I guess what I'm doing I'm just frantically searching for any hints for a new model to try that might get me a bit closer. And this is all before I have even done one start-to-finish computation of that spectral function (still don't really know how to do all the steps or even what they are, which is another thing I'm trying to shove into my brain). 

&#x200B;

AHHHHH",0,3,15.993791045113294,GradSchool
Study music,Need some Spotify playlists. Things that don’t sound like too familiar if songs cause I end up singing them in my head.  I got a lot of reading to do and I need to focus,3,2,16.042263267335517,GradSchool
Graduate minors and taking grad courses with little prior relevant coursework?,"I am starting to look into applying for graduate school, and I am looking for information/advice on pursuing a graduate minor. I already know that I want to major in geography, which is what I did for my undergrad, but I would really like to minor or at least get some coursework in journalism and or communications/media studies. The problem, however, is that I went to a pretty small college and didn't really have a chance to take any journalism or communications courses (nor did I know at the time that I really was interested in those fields). I did take one media/cultural studies course (Film Analysis and Visual Culture), but that's about all I have for prior related coursework. My question for everyone is do schools typically allow you to take grad courses in a given field if you have little to no prior coursework in that field? If yes, do you have to find a way to get that prior coursework somehow, for instance taking an undergrad course as a grad student? I'm sure it depends at least partially on the school/program, but I'm just wondering if anyone has any general insight into this. I may sound like a complete novice here, but I do know people that ended up going to grad school for something completely unrelated to their undergrad degree, so I figure there must be some way to jump into certain fields with little experience. Any help would be greatly appreciated!",4,0,16.076950767335518,GradSchool
Goodhart’s Law: Are Academic Metrics Being Gamed?,,1,8,16.090272526594777,GradSchool
I am really struggling in my MA - please help.,"Hey everyone. I am a first year MA student studying Social and Political thought. I am 4 weeks into the program, and I am really struggling with all of it. 

I am finding that even though I do all the readings, re-read the readings, make summaries, and lists of questions, I always feel 3 steps behind. I feel lost and honestly stupid in comparison to my classmates. I am trying to participate in discussion and seminars, but I feel like I am always just missing the point that the professor may be making. 

I have also been having a hard time balancing the work load, with a regular job, my volunteering, as well as my life (ie taking time to myself, I haven’t had any time for the gym or for food prep). It’s been taking a toll on my mental health, and I haven’t been sleeping well as a result. 

These feelings have made me really overwhelmed, and reluctant/not enjoying doing the school work. They have pushed me into a bit of a slump and they have made me feel like I am not going to succeed. I have been genuinely questioning if I even want to do this for my life, or what it is I even want to do. 

Can anyone please help me with how your survived this? How did you managed to do the readings in that ‘masters way’ and not just the undergrad regurgitating information way. How did you stop feeling like you were always behind/possibly failing even though you’re doing your best?

Please help. I am honestly considering dropping out. I am really suffering here.

Thank you.",3,3,16.140295674742923,GradSchool
How to improvise GPA with other completed (online) coursework?,"My GPA is measured out of a 10-point system. Currently, I've got an 8.6/10 and I have a year left -- this number is likely to remain (top of my class has got a 9.2/10, this is absolute grading). Converting unweighted to a 4-point system, my 8.6 is a 3.4 (ish) and weighted online calculators show me 3.6 (ish). I know the whole deal about not trying to convert GPA to other scales since it varies differently for different universities, but I want to know if completing certified online coursework can improve my chances at universities that have an average undergrad GPA of around 3.7. I'm talking about coursework that will \*not\* be on my transcripts, since my university is pretty damn rigid about this. Yes, the Letters of Recommendation and the Statement of Purpose help portray the image that ""my GPA is not the entire story"", but will these online courses count as well?",2,0,16.1758859525207,GradSchool
Looking for Programs,"I don't if this is the right place for this...

I am a Nigerian with about 7 years post Bsc work experience. (I work in development and I am currently mid-management/technical advisory level. I work specifically in Global Health Security.) I Just registered for the GRE. I have 0$ saved for graduate school but it is totally necessary to get it and from a good US school. What programs/funding opportunities should I be looking at? How should even approach looking?",4,0,16.186487804372554,GradSchool
What are your thoughts on Twitter?,"Personally, I can't stand it. I've honestly lost respect for professors in my department who post every day, circlejerking their preprints and seeking validation for their failures a la ""it happens to the best of us."" 

Am I just being a cynical asshole?",7,0,16.20141835992811,GradSchool
I got an email today,"I have never been the smartest kid in the batch, since middle school - I was decent. I barely got into one of the better undergrad schools for chemical engineering in India. I did not like what the curriculum had to offer. In my school, we did not have the option of taking courses from other departments even if you have the acumen or are interested. I wanted to do computational bio, so I started learning stuff on my own and applied for REU fellowships and when I was in sophomore year, I bagged a prestigious fellowship from the Govt. of India. I started believing in myself more.  
After undergrad, I joined Penn State for my PhD where I was super happy to work on computational biology. Again, since I had no prior formal training in neither computational science and biology, my progress was very slow. My advisor isn't the best person to be with if you are a slow learner. I had to digest numerous humiliating one-on-one meetings for being slow. I knew I am getting there, but he would be the last person to buy that. I started putting in more hours and started talking to more students to broaden my knowledge horizon. Last year, I ended up publishing in a top journal after working out a problem for three long years. I am a sixth year PhD student now. I want to stay in academia, so I started applying for post-doctoral positions in several universities. My advisor initially had said that he would forward my applications to some of the good labs, but now insisted I submit a certain manuscript before I apply anywhere. I got some interviews after 50 applications or so.

&#x200B;

Today I received an email. It read - "" We would love to have you join us and contribute in our computational protein design efforts at the xxx lab at Harvard Medical School "". I am really happy after a long long time. I am about to defend in a month now.",39,588,16.203443822891074,GradSchool
Building a tree of knowledge,"So, I just began grad school and was wondering if there is something (a website or a tool) that sort of creates a knowledge tree of the subject. I know a good book would be an answer because it literally does that. But what if I can't find a good book? Are there any attempts to build a tree that visually shows how knowledge has progressed and what are the current research questions asked? 

&#x200B;

Also, is there a recommender tool for research papers that you use? I've tried Mendeley's recommendations but wondering about others.",3,1,16.206383637705887,GradSchool
What skills do you wish you worked on before you went into grad school?,"Any discipline, but I’m looking at going for a masters/PhD in chemistry and wondered if anyone had any advice/warnings.",44,40,16.254242434002183,GradSchool
Dissertation's almost due,"My dissertation's due on Friday. I'm going to make it, but the ""dissertations are never finished, just abandoned"" adage is ringing real damn true. I've got a few more comments from readers to respond to on the last chapter and the intro and conclusion, and I want to flesh out my footnotes some more in a few other places. 

I'm so damn tired, you guys. I got stung by a wasp last week and had a terrible allergic reaction and have spent the second to last week I had to write hopped up on anti-histamines and steroids, and I trashed over a hundred pages of writing about a year ago and started over with a new outline, and this whole damn dissertation has been so stressful it's made me physically ill even when insects aren't trying to kill me. It's surreal seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, and not quite being there yet, and at the same time I don't know what I'm doing after I finish the degree yet which is terrifying. And the other person in my cohort who was supposed to be finishing at the same time as me might be getting his graduation pushed back a semester, which weirdly makes me feel like I'm going down the home stretch alone, and he's the one something bad happened to so I can't exactly complain to him. Is anyone else handing their dissertation in soon? This is getting increasingly hard to process.",3,8,16.730700767335517,GradSchool
Contemplating something and need help,"First off I’m in my first semester in college. I graduate high school with 64 credits which ate up almost every gen. ed I have to take. This means I could graduate with a major and minor (possible 2 minors) 2-3 semesters early depending on if I want one or two minors. I have a great scholarship that covers my tuition in full plus a little extra to bring home. 
Is it a good idea to graduate early? Would grad school be weirded out if I tried to apply for it so early? If I did go this route my scholarship is able to go towards my grad school tuition.",3,1,16.762807248816998,GradSchool
"Please help! How do I get an entry-level job as a Strategy/Business Analyst in the US as an international student pursuing a masters at an ivy league currently? Set to graduate in May 2020, and only have internship experience.",,2,0,16.78676558215033,GradSchool
Documenting code... Do you always do it?,"I just started my first semester of grad school doing computational biology. I have joined a lab, and this is really the first time I’ve programmed as more than just a hobbyist. I’ve always been anal about commenting code, but it seems that most people in the lab don’t. 

Also, our PI is always encouraging us to complete as much as possible each week. So, it seems natural to skimp out on comments for the sake of speed. 

Does anyone have advice on how they document code or what impacts undocumented code may have on publishing results?",12,2,16.846892896965148,GradSchool
Please take my survey for my class project (must be 25-32 years old),,0,0,17.035550304372553,GradSchool
Is there qualitative student/scholar here who could help me switch quantitative style questions into qualitative questions?," 

Background: I'm doing a research study on communication apprehension and bilingualism. I'm doing this for a qualitative research class and so my research questions need to be fitted for an interview study. Can anyone either explain to me what to look out for (the do's and don'ts) or can I post the questions here to get some pointers of what I did wrong and how to change them? I guess in undergrad I got used to doing quant style questions :(

Also, would anyone know if there's a subreddit that could help me with IRB (Institutional Review Board) questions? I'm just about ready to submit the application to make this study publish-able, but i'm stuck in a few places.

Sorry also if this wasn't the right place to post either questions, I will delete if not appropriate for this place!",1,1,17.058652156224408,GradSchool
2 physics grads talk Sean Carroll on Joe Rogan,,0,3,17.09397623029848,GradSchool
What do you think of professors that ban laptops in classes?,"I'm in a master's program. One of my professors said that if we want to use laptops we need to sit in the back to not be distracting, which kind of made sense...it was more of a hand notetaking class anyway (economics).

Another professor I have now has banned laptops all together. And she makes us do a ""minute paper"" in the first 5 min of class for attendance which you will miss if you are late and counts as a mark against your participation score. It's a 6pm class and most of us work full-time and have long commutes during traffic hour, so inevitably sometimes you are late to class.

It feels like high school and as adults I've seen a few people goofing off on their laptops, but the majority are taking notes or googling additional info on what we are talking about. 

Is this becoming more common?",116,193,17.12241373029848,GradSchool
Spreading myself to thin.,"Let me talk about a stressful day, I am spreading myself to thin. 

I want to go out but I also want to work on my research and side projects. I also have to grade for my students. The problem now is that I just got invited to my schools tailgate. I know that if I go to the tail gate I will be thinking about how I can get ahead in research , but if I stay home Ill be thinking about going to the tailgate. Looks like ill be going to the tailgate. I feel this will be best just might not get drunk.",3,3,17.230619748817,GradSchool
Mental Health Advice for Grad school,"I am first-year grad student, and I struggle with an anxiety disorder. I really need to find a doc to go on meds plus start-up weekly therapy for myself. I really don't know to broach this topic with a PI. Especially since I'm rotating, and time is limited between classes, studying, and lab to generate data for poster presentations we have to do by the end of the rotation.  

How do I manage to tell my PI  I need to take at least a few hours off to go to counseling for my mental well being without having them be upset I taking time off  lab?",12,57,17.26354798955774,GradSchool
Resume Advice for Grad School,"Hello,

[https://imgur.com/a/hHnCGiw](https://imgur.com/a/hHnCGiw)

I am thinking of applying to grad school (research based) for next year, in the meantime I am working. I am just looking for some feedback on how should I shrink this resume to one page without taking away important information.

I edited it to hide my personal information. I would be grateful for any feedback, I appreciate it.

Thanks!",9,6,17.328906785854034,GradSchool
What’s the best thing an advisor ever said to you?,Inspired by a recent post here,15,9,17.81741373029848,GradSchool
Thinking of going abroad to grad school,"Does anybody have any advice? I haven’t solidified anything yet. I’m currently getting my BSC in mental health. I’d like to pursue clinical psychology. 

My family is very negative in this aspect. They want the best for me but keep telling me to stay here in my home city. I’d really like to go out of my comfort zone and be in my own. I know it’s a huge jump but I also just hate being the only one who believes in myself.

I’m thinking of either going somewhere within my country (Canada) or Amsterdam. 

Does anyone have any tips/feel good words? I’m feeling a little shitty/anxious/overwhelmed all together lol.",5,3,17.82948548955774,GradSchool
HIGHLY interested in moving to Germany for Grad School. Any advice?,"I am in the initial stages of my research and am narrowing down my options. But I am pretty confident that I will pursue psychology/counseling. 

I am an American citizen living on the east coast and have my bachelor’s in criminal justice. 

If anyone has made a similar move, what advice do you have for me? 

Any and all advice is appreciated. 
Thank you all",21,6,17.88656882289107,GradSchool
How close should a PI's field of study align with my interests when planning to study in a less popular field?,"For  background information: I study Chinese history, with an intense   interest in the Republican and Maoist periods (1920s-late 1970s). I want   to study either Russian-Sino relationships with an concentration on  how  Communist ideals transmitted to China or the treatment and societal   status of homosexual men during this period (and I guess women too, to   an extent). However most professors I look at don’t study exactly this   and either study that period (or peripheral periods) but with a focus  on  something else, like religion or whatnot.

So   my question is this: how important is it that my interest align up   perfectly with a potential professor I want to study under for Ph.D,   especially in a still growing field like Chinese history.  I’m currently   writing statement of purposes and not sure how much of an issue it   would be for certain schools. I don’t want to waste money if they’re   just going to automatically throw out my application, despite having   good academics, LoR, and foreign language knowledge, because no   professor studies exactly what I want.

comment",11,7,17.898166045113292,GradSchool
"Thanks, you are the best.","This was a single line email from my major professor after finishing up a bunch of graphics for their presentation next week. I don't always desire kudos, but it definitely felt real good after a busy week of email traffic and edits.",2,201,17.902170674742923,GradSchool
Any advice on catching up?,"I got severely ill very recently to the point I didn't even have the strength to get out of bed. I fell behind on my homework and readings, but the teacher allowed me to get an extension due to the circumstances? Other than staying off reddit any advice on getting it done faster. I've been doing it, but it's slow going with other homework already being assigned.",2,2,17.99252947103922,GradSchool
"Thinking of writing a book about what prospective grad students should keep in mind throughout, kind of like a survival/advisory guide","What do y’all think? I’m gonna do this after I graduate, if you think it’s a good idea. Just to kind of share the lessons I’ve learned through my experiences and foreshadow what might happen etc.",14,13,18.073362804372554,GradSchool
Letter of motivation for grant application,"I am not sure if this has been asked earlier, if yes, then just guide me there.  
I am applying for a PhD fellowship and I need to write a Letter of Motivation. Does anyone have experience with this? What exactly should I write? I have written a draft but for some reason, it seems a little immature to me",0,1,18.077054934002184,GradSchool
Paying for Grad School. How many loans did you take it? Were the loans very costly? Did you have a chance of being awarded any financial aid or tuition based jobs with a professor or with your department?,I'm curious about Grad School but worried about the costs of paying for it. I barely got through my undergrad with scholarships and financial aid.,14,8,18.109821137705886,GradSchool
"Applying to Grad School, what's the basic thing you need to do?",A personal statement right? recommendation letter from your professor? what else?,4,0,18.11122160066885,GradSchool
ScholarOne manuscript “Under Review”,"Probably has been asked before but when I look this up online I get conflicting answers.

Some people say it means the manuscript has been sent to reviewers while others say its still being looked at by the editors.

So which one is it? This is my 1st time submitting a paper and I am wondering if I got past the desk rejection stage",5,2,18.126337341409588,GradSchool
"How can I make the most of my time in grad school, pursuing an MSc in International Security?","I am a grad student persuing an MSc in International security. I chose this degree because I felt my B.A. in IR was too broad and I want to zone in on something more specific. I think peacekeeping is an interesting topic in international security I may do my dissertation on. My optional modules for the year are ""the politics of insecurity"" and ""Evaluating and managing development"".

How can I make the most of this time in Grad school? I will be attending the University of Bristol in the UK starting monday. I want to join societies related to international affairs and volunteering as well as a small part time job. Any advice helps!",4,0,18.136742434002183,GradSchool
Is it a good idea for me to go to Grad School?,"   
I am currently a senior in college, getting my BS in Physics. My parents want me to go to grad school to get a Masters before joining the workforce, while I think it is a better idea for me to apply for jobs in Engineering or Programming right after graduation. I already have some experience with engineering projects and the C programming language. They argue that a masters makes me more marketable, and I will get higher paying jobs. I don't think that a Masters will give me any advantage over what job I get and so I see it as a waste of time and money. What do you all think about getting a Masters degree? Will it help my job prospects or not?",7,2,18.16979798955774,GradSchool
Opinions on out of field master's thesis?,"I'm mechanical engineering master's student with focus on aerospace and it is time for me to choose a thesis topic now. However, I started this a bit late and there are not any available projects on aerospace. In this case, I either have to wait for a semester to see new projects and hope there is one I like or take a project in another field, most likely robotics, medical applications or general manufacturing. Unfortunately I do not have a particular interest in any of these fields and fear that I will not find enough motivation to push myself hard and get really good results. Also I'm suspicious on how this would affect my future, as I'm pretty sure I'll continue to work on aerospace after graduating. So I would like to ask people who have done their thesis on a different field, did you find it worth?  How enjoyable or stressful was the process? How is it perceived when you look for a job or phd in your orijinal field?",0,1,18.194323452520702,GradSchool
Start up based on PhD project? How does it work?,"I am planning to start PhD project hunting soon, and my main goal after obtaining my PhD is to have my own start up based on my project or probably after a few years of working as a post doc somewhere. I am planning to make this super clear to any potential PI before starting with them as well. However, if research is associated to a certain professor, how do students usually have their own startup based on that? I would imagine that professors would typically want their idea to stay their own or be heavily involved in any start up that arises based on their work/ideas? If it matters, I'm hoping to open my start up in a different country from where my PhD is going to be, so I dont think the PI will be super involved in the start up either.",7,3,18.2158859525207,GradSchool
[Theoretical and Applied Math PhD] or [CS PhD] How important is a second language?,"I see a lot of undergraduate programs urging students to pick up French, Russian, or German as a second language for math and CS.  If I apply for a Math PhD or CS PhD program will it hurt me not knowing another language?  Is this to conduct research in other countries or translating math papers in other languages?

I was thinking Russian mainly because I am near a large Russian population and proper grammar as well as functional communication could be learned simultaneously.  

I am most likely going to pursue mathematical machine learning if they allow me or a focus in Linear Algebra, maybe commutative Ring or Field theory (these are not as applicable to real-world problems so I am hesitant on conveying this as a specialization, it is important in networking though).  In my college system you must go for a Master's somewhere and you will most likely select a local professor (Master's college) as an adviser for your dissertation.  I like that it allows a terminal Master's but you also need to be precise on where you choose to attend for the first step.

I have a couple of years with building software so any coding can be done relatively easy, and I also know a broad spectrum of CS theory.

Can any Math PhD's also speak to whether this level of education is helpful anymore?  With the internet people can hack together math ideas to accomplish tasks, so is a true formal training important?  Many of the advisers are from MIT, Harvard, and many other top tier programs, so I believe the program will be as good as I can make it.  I was also tempted to pursue Statistics or Probability since this ties in deeply with Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, but I was burned by my probability and stats class, which made me a little timid of that study as well.

tl;dr do I need to know Russian, French, or German to make the most out of a PhD program?  What math specialization will allow me to solve real-world problems opposed to being bound more to an academic setting?  I know programming extensively but I would like to sharpen my problem-solving ability.  Also I am not married, no kids, no girlfriend, and I make mostly A's with a few B's in my math, CS classes.",9,1,18.237205396965145,GradSchool
"Left medical school several years ago, started a company, and make a good living. But I'm not stimulated, and am considering applying for a PhD program in plant genetics. Is it worth it?","While in undergrad, I always assumed I'd go get a PhD right afterwards. My lab advisors heavily advised me against it, and encouraged me to pursue medical school instead, as they said it would give me more options. I had the grades, the right classes, and the right experiences already, so I went for it. 

I got in to a MD program, and attended for about a year before leaving. Even though I enjoyed the material I was learning, I found the program to be toxic. So I left, moved, and started a tutoring company. 

Right now, I have everything I thought I wanted. I'm happily married, have a house, and make a great salary with very few hours. But I'm honestly really bored. I love teaching and working with my students, but I'm not getting intellectually stimulated. And I think there's a possibility I could keep a few students on top of grad school work for the extra income.

I'm heavily considering applying for a PhD in plant genetics. Areas that interest me are improving plants' adaptability to climate change, and engineering them to produce nutrients that may be more scarce in the future. My B.S. was in genetics as well, and one of my parents was a botanist. So I'm familiar with the field. 

But I'm not sure if I'm completely insane to consider this or not. Part of me is worried that the ship sailed when I graduated in 2013. So is it worth it? Are all of you happy to be in grad school, or would you trade it for an easy job and good money?",7,6,18.260226230298482,GradSchool
Struggling in Graduate School,"I'm just starting my Masters program and I'm feeling so overwhelmed. I can't finish my homework assignments, I can't make friends, I spend pretty much all day in the library studying and I feel like I'm not making progress intellectually. I knew grad school would be challenging but it's just been really depressing so far.",3,7,18.267344285854037,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Write a lot of code?

* Celebrate your birthday?

* Meet with your new advisor and find out they're fantastic?

* Earn stellar student evaluations?

* Have your work published online?

* Go out for dinner paid for by your advisor?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",13,2,18.281129008076256,GradSchool
TA Win - sharing happiness from this morning's tutorial,"This is my second year TAing a first year course (the same one). I mark assignments (there is one almost every week) and exams, and I teach a one-hour tutorial for \~30 students once a week. This year I decided to try out an anonymous feedback & questions box and it is *so worth it*. I give every student an index card at the beginning of class, and get everybody to return their card to my box before they leave. If they don't have a comment, they just put it in blank. Then I go through the cards after class and try to answers the questions/incorporate their feedback into the next tutorial. Usually I get a few things that people didn't understand, and often there are duplicates (multiple people wanted to spend more time reviewing a previous assignment, for example). I sometimes get one saying something that they liked about how I taught, and one or two that have a smiley face.

Today, I got a ""Have a good day"" with a big smile, and a ""Look for something nice to smile about today. Your happiness is worth it. :)""

These students are awesome and I am so happy right now. This made my day. I'm tired and stressed out - I'm currently both a full-time PhD student and a part-time MA student, with both a TAship and an RAship, and I've got a massive scholarship application due at 8pm today. Before I go back to desperately trying to revise my scholarship proposal and rewrite my MA thesis, I'm taking a minute to savour this moment, and be grateful.",7,134,18.28835123029848,GradSchool
What do you ask at grad school fairs?,Is it the equivalent of an undergraduate college fair? What kind of questions do you ask the representatives? What information do you try to get?,6,4,18.306545674742924,GradSchool
Was This Potential Supervisor Disrespectful Towards Me?,"So, I am applying again for graduate school this year as I did not make it in last year. I'm applying to all Canadian universities as an American, so there will be slight mention of it here, but not too much where you guys will be confused hopefully. 

I scheduled two interviews at a university near Toronto and rode a bus all the way from the East coast of America to Canada. I am also visiting friends all week, so it wasn't like I was going there just for schools. We also had to drive about an hour from Toronto to the university using a rent a car. 

My first interview was great and I feel like I have a chance of getting into this person's lab, so no complaints there. The second interview though was...troubling and I'm not sure if it was normal. 

For context, I graduated with a neuroscience degree but I am interested in social psychology and human relationships, just with a bit of a neuroscience twist. Both profs I interviewed for are in the psychology department, but the majors are so closely related so you can easily go into psychology with a neuroscience degree. 

When I walk in for the second interview, I am immediately getting attacked. This Prof pulls up my application from last year as well as my GRE scores. While I would understand this in a circumstance that the GRE was still being used in Canada it is not being used by this university at all this year. My GRE scores are BAD because of multiple reasons, one of which being I am a horrible standardized test taker and I didn't want to spend 200 more dollars on a test that the universities im applying to don't even use for admission anymore. 

The Prof says that these scores worry her and that based on them I would've already been put into the no pile. I explain that my scores don't reflect me as a student at all and the makes I received in undergrad should reflect that. I graduated with a 3.36 and got good grades in my English, statistics and math courses. I am also learning MatLab, so I am perfectly capable of doing statistical math. 

They then ask why I want to go to Canada for school, I explain that I like the diversity here and that I believe that if I can go to graduate school and have my education paid for by stipend and...I don't even get to the point where I can say I'm also applying for scholarships when they cut me off to explain how my stipend and tuition would cancel each other out. 

They then ask why I want to go for my masters. I explain I would like to get a PhD as I like the opportunities it would afford me. They explain how getting a PhD lowers my flexibility, ok...fair I guess. 

But the thing that bothered me the most was the fact that they accused me of picking them because I just despretly wanted to get in somewhere, and that they were my fourth choice. I only talked to two profs this year, but they were using my application last year against me which I thought was wholly unfair. They flat out said based on my interest I would not be a good fit for their lab and that they wouldn't even consider me and that the only reason I was talking to them was because I was traveling her from the US. I was dumbfounded and angry. Why couldn't you have told me this in the initial email? Why did you waste my time coming her when you already made up your mind? I could've scheduled an interview with someone else have you told me this previously. I feel like I not only wasted my time, but my friend who paid money for a car to drive up here. Is this normal? Is this what happens? Or is this just flat out Disrespectful?",8,1,18.358906785854035,GradSchool
2 physicists and 1 biology grads talk about leopard slug sex,,0,0,18.372147526594777,GradSchool
Finance Master Thesis Defense,"I have my Finance master thesis defense tomorrow. Help!

And as a good student, I have just started my ppt. 

I do know my topic from cover to cover buuuuut I don't know how to structure the defense.

I am doing an econometrics analysis on the volatility of option in the healthcare industry. Yada yada.

My methodology part on the thesis itself is huge, lots of factors and assumption.

I was told to NOT show methodology and just go to the regression part and show the final regression, results and how it is applied.

Anyone has a tip on that? Should I detail my methodology, or is it better to show the final application and dive into methodology if asked?",3,2,18.406186878446626,GradSchool
Is it too much to want the best? (Warning- It's a huge ass post!!),"So here's a little background on me (which you'll need!). It was 2013 and I was a fresh high school graduate with absolutely no ambition, aim or goal in life. My parents wanted me to do a bachelors in engineering and they made a hefty donation to get me into a T50 college in my country. I got in, the course never resonated with me and with the passage of time my grades and what little interest I had deteriorated. I ended up not clearing 19 exams over the course of three years (we have 7 subjects a semester and 2 semesters in a year). I finally decided to drop out of college and do something that actually makes sense. 

Many a summers and winters later, it was the June of 2017 and I decided to take up my bachelors in business administration from a not so well known university. when i joined i had no clarity in terms of what i wanted, i had no confidence or self-confidence but I had a burning desire to prove everyone who didn't have faith in me to be wrong. Over the course of 2.5 years I managed to get that chip off my shoulder (i think?), become an A+ Student (91% over 4 semesters), having done 5 internships which took be to different places within the country and abroad, was elected president of the student council and was also the recipient of the universities leadership award. By now i had a clear idea of what i wanted to do in life- i wanted to become a consultant in the field of marketing and I knew i wanted to go to grad school and I knew why i wanted to do so. 

When the time came for applying I first started considering the T100 schools and then as the time for me to submit applications approached T100 became T50 which became T20 and Now I'm considering applying to and focusing on T5 schools. My teachers and peers think that I have what it takes but my folks are skeptical about me being able to cope up with the programme. Initially i was confident about being able to handle it but now dread grows stronger in my minds and fear is creeping in, paralyzing my actions and adding a bit of indecisiveness each time I think about it. I don't know what to do! it's a huge investment in terms of both time and money- but do i have the necessary skill sets coming from a not too great college (as I know my competition will be the best of the best)? do i have what it takes to get through the programme? I don't know! have any of you been in the same position and what have you done or what would you do?!",9,0,18.45252947103922,GradSchool
Thinking about ditching science for art school.,"I started a MSc program in molecular genetics research at the University of Toronto a few weeks ago, which entails 3 5-week rotations. I'm currently halfway through my first rotation and although the research is interesting, I can't help but find myself not suitable for academia. I can't help but feel like other first years in my program are a lot more passionate about research than I could ever hope to be (they are asking insightful questions, have more experience having worked in labs over the summer, etc.)

The only reason I pursued this program was because I got rejected from Genetic Counseling and was sick of working customer service jobs (I had a hard time finding a job in science after my undergrad). I had a horrible time thinking of committing to PIs so I chose a program that offers lab rotations.

However, science and fine arts have always been my two passions, and now I'm thinking I should pursue a career in art. I've done my fair share of commissions and selling pieces online, but I'm thinking of dropping out of the MSc program and going to an art college program. I initially thought of going into a Medical Illustration / Biomedical Communications program; however, not only am I missing a couple pre reqs from undergrad, but U of T is the only school that offers it in Canada. I was thinking of maybe boosting my portfolio by attending a college program before applying to a Masters in Biomed Communications. 

Am I shooting myself in the foot if I drop out of U of T only to reapply a few years later?

Tldr; academia probably isn't for me, am I making a mistake to drop out and pursue fine arts?",16,3,18.896939193261442,GradSchool
Science student/ researcher FEEDBACK NEEDED (5 mins)- on a tool that connects designers + researchers to a real community project,"I am exploring a tool where design and science students can connect to work on a service/program/UX design project together from a project sponsor within the same community. (Basis of the projects revolve around healthcare, community health, Social Determinants of Health).

Here is the survey: [https://forms.gle/p91KwDYNuyj68JPY8](https://forms.gle/p91KwDYNuyj68JPY8)

I believe the motives are all aligned:

* Community Project Sponsor (for example a community non-profit) - a well-designed project backed with real scientific research
* Design student: an impactful, potentially implementable project on portfolio
* Science student: apply research to a real setting, impactful on CV/resume, a portfolio piece, and potential publishing

Let me know what you think. I'm in the process of doing user-research on project sponsors, design students and science/research students.",0,2,18.981973915483664,GradSchool
My rotation advisor is awesome and it's left me super conflicted,"I've recently started a PhD program with 3 mandatory rotations. I selected this program because there's a PI here I really wanted to work with, and I have already spoken to that PI and they essentially agreed that they would be my advisor.

However, I just started my first rotation this past week, and the work is totally different from everything I've done before, while still remaining in the same general field. This advisor is incredible. I have already learned so much in the past few days; this person is clearly brilliant, and has been so patient with my catching up to speed while still moving through everything at an extremely fast pace. We have super compatible senses of humor. The work, though I still don't entirely understand the nuances, is growing on me.

I don't know what to do. The work in this lab could be theoretically be done in at a ton of different universities, greatly expanding my career options compared to the first PI (very niche). But I have already started to develop a fairly strong network in that original subfield, and I really love the work I've done in it so far. I have met that PI a few times as well, and while I think we would get along we almost certainly wouldn't have the same chemistry (hah) as I do with the rotation advisor. I feel so conflicted, like I'm questioning a part of my identity. I was not expecting this.

Any advice would be greatly appreciated.",4,1,19.017089656224407,GradSchool
Engineering to English?,"To make a long story short, I have been working as a Biomedical Engineer for the past 5 years now, but my dream is to be an English Professor. I have a BS in Biomedical Engineering and I minored in English Language and Literature. What I want to know is, is it possible for me to get a PhD in English Lit or similar? Would it be best for me to try for a Master’s degree first? Would I need to start all the way over and get a BA first?

Any help is appreciated!",6,1,19.036302619187367,GradSchool
Freaking out about the GRE,"So I've got one more attempt at this damn test. I'm taking it on October 5. I've been studying for months, I already took it two times, and got a 149Q.

I'm doing it because the University of Waterloo requires it for international students. I'm applying to CS.

I've taken several practice tests and I can't seem to get more than 151.

I don't know what to do anymore. I've tried everything. I've paid insane amounts of money to get this to work and I can't seem to get anything but crap score in math.

I hate this test, it's nothing more than a scam designed to fleece students out of their money and to keep poor people out of college.

Anybody have any advice? I have half a week before I have to take it. I could delay it one more week if everything goes right. I just want to be done with it. I've spent the last 7 months fighting this test.",36,1,19.082679934002183,GradSchool
Gradschool gpa requirnments,"         I guess this had been discussed countless times but here i go. I am a senior mechatronics student, i got my fair share of problems in life and i couldnt really care about collage in most of my first and second year of the collage. I know this is not important and i should have been succesfull anyway and deal with whatever life throws at me and gradschool commites domt care about my problems. Since the third year i am working significantly harder while trying to catch up and i am expecting to graduate with a gpa of 3,0-3,2  . I wonder where i can study robotics and control systems. I am planning to get MS in university of twente. My question is if i could get in there? If not where would i fit and which schools would accept me? This summer i am planning to do erasmus+ program and do scientific research with a proffesor in europe, would this significantly increase my chance to get admitted? I am really stressed out and I cant stop constantly calculating letter grades and their effect to my gpa. I dont know if anyone will reply but thanks whoever does.",2,0,19.088339656224406,GradSchool
IR Certifications,Does anyone have any recommendations on any good certifications for IR/Political Science grad students to obtain?,2,6,19.16144150807626,GradSchool
European Bachelor's Degree in America,"I'm currently a second year US IMG that is doing a 6 year medical school program in Europe which counts for a bachelor's degree and MD degree here in the US if I pass the USMLE steps. I was wondering if I would be allowed to pursue an MBA degree after I complete the 6 year Bachelor/MD in Europe. Also, after becoming a doctor, would that help me get into an MBA program? I scored 1330/1600 on the SAT and had pretty decent grades. What would the MBA program look at, if they do accept my European degree, in order to let me enroll in their program? I was thinking to do an online MBA in order to be able to work as an anesthesiologist which is my main goal. Those are like 1-2 years, right?",8,1,19.181661415483664,GradSchool
How to tell my advisor that i want to leave the program,"I interned during the summer and half-jokingly said that I wish they would give me a job, they did and I've already signed the offer. Unfortunately, I am an international student and getting a work visa is not easy. I was waiting to tell my advisor until things became clearer and I've basically kept him in the dark for the past month or so. What's the best way to break the news without making it sound like I was trying to fool him. I don't want things to get sour between us and for him to think that the company was trying to poach me.",2,2,19.19866373029848,GradSchool
PhD interview tips please,I am waiting for my PhD placement interview coming on this Wednesday. It's going to be panel of 3 people and I am already feeling sick even thinking about it. I feel like I might forget everything on the day of interview. I need advice and help how to tackle this pleaseeeeee,2,0,19.203814193261444,GradSchool
What is your system for storing/managing literature? Feeling exceptionally overwhelmed.,"I'm a bit of an anxious person, and for some reason the process of choosing a way to store/manage literature is freezing me in place. I'm not even sure what it is I'm looking for which is part of the problem, so recommendations would be helpful. Are there pros/cons to certain systems or methods? I'm new to all of this, but will most likely be doing an integrative lit review if that helps with suggestions. Thanks!",7,1,19.234265582150332,GradSchool
Is it better to have a letter of recommendation from someone related to my field or an unrelated professor?,"I’m applying to a masters of design in Sustainable urban environments. After college I did a summer internship where I focused on a lot of sustainable land management and landscaping. The program director wasn’t involved with as much of that but could still talk about my work. 

On the other hand, I can ask my committee member from undergrad who helped advise my thesis but doesn’t have anything to do with design. 

I have one academic and one non profit reference. Which route do I go for the third?",2,1,19.29116373029848,GradSchool
What are your feelings about departmental awards/fellowships?,"Obviously it's great when you receive them. But as someone who's usually (aka never) not nominated for the awards, it makes me feel inadequate. The consensus among students (and on here) is that we shouldn't make a big deal out of it - everyone's progress is different - don't compare to others...etc. But, I cannot stop myself from being less than the others. I am doing my best, given the resources I have, but recognition is nice. If you get it.",15,10,19.312402156224405,GradSchool
"If you are a first generation student, how do you cope when your family or friends who ""just don't get it"" are not supportive?","I am a first generation student, and the first person in my family to ever pursue a doctorate. Increasingly, I find myself extremely frustrated and angry with my family and friends for not understanding that this isn't some bs degree that just requires the bare minimum of work. 

How do I get them to understand that this is really difficult? I feel resentful because they can blow off steam after work and don't have the same crazy schedule that I do, so they don't understand what I'm going through and are rarely supportive. Any advice?",68,235,19.389566508076257,GradSchool
Got Accepted for Theoretical Computer Science at Charles Uni in Prague but VISA got denied not sure what to do,,6,2,19.661881322891073,GradSchool
Stressed I might get a C my first half semester,"Hey guys,

I’m extremely stressed that I might get a C in one of my classes my first semester, which is not a passing grade like in most grad schools. This first semester has been incredibly overwhelming and I felt like I was drowning for a lot of it. To cope I began to take more time for myself and while this made me much happier, looking back I realize it caused me to fall behind in a class that I find very interesting. Now I’m set to take the final in a week and feel like there’s no way to get a good command of the material while I have two other finals to study for along with my TA duties. I’m back to feeling completely helpless and terrified of what’s going to happen. Has anyone here gotten a C in a class and managed to persevere afterwards or is this a sign that I might not be cut out for grad school?",2,0,19.682112804372554,GradSchool
Approaching multiple potential masters supervisors in the same department,"I'm looking to apply for a Masters in Chemistry at a university in Japan starting in October 2020.
My undergrad degree was very broad, covering the basics of Chemistry. I did carry out a research project during my 3rd year, but I had no say in the topic and ,honestly, I didn't find it particularly interesting (although I loved the process of actually being in a lab and doing research hence why I want to pursue a Masters). As a result I don't have any specific topic that I'm burning to focus on for my research. 

I need to contact potential supervisors and secure the promise of a place with one of them before submitting my application to the University in November. So I've been browsing the researcher's directory  I've found a couple of different groups whose work I find interesting. However, these group's research are in quite different areas but they are within the same department of the same school. Also, neither is at all related to my undergrad research experience.   

Would it harm my chances to approach both Professors? I'm worried that I'll appear unfocused and confused. (I guess I am, but I don't want them to know that😅) ",1,2,19.685191508076255,GradSchool
can anyone give feedback for my motivation letter,"Hi I'm a master student in mechanical engineering (specialize in robotics and control). I want to do a semester exchange at ETH Zurich, however, in the application guidline, very little was mentioned regarding the motivation letter, so I went to the grad school application website and took their guidlines as a reference.

Write an essay in English with no more than 1 page including:

\- reason for choosing this program/major/university

\- academic experiences

\- setting goals

I already asked a couple of friends to review it, so if you're not from a related field, grammar or spelling check would also be very useful. Just DM me if you're willing to help and I'll forward you the link!

I can't offer much in return, but feel free to ask and I'll try withing my ability.",0,0,19.779080396965146,GradSchool
Is anyone willing to give me feedbacks about my motivation letter?,"Hi I'm a master student in mechanical engineering (specialize in robotics and control). I want to do a semester exchange at ETH Zurich, however, in the application guidline, very little was mentioned regarding the motivation letter, so I went to the grad school application website and took their guidlines as a reference. 

Write an essay in English with no more than 1 page including:

 \- reason for choosing this program/major/university

 \- academic experiences

 \- setting goals

DM me if you're willing to help and I'll forward you the link!

I can't offer much in return, but feel free to ask and I'll try withing my ability.",0,0,19.781383637705886,GradSchool
Can I just say how much I REALLY enjoy grad school?,"I see a lot of negative posts here (and I get it, we ALL get burn out) but I'd really like to talk a bit about how GREAT grad school is. These last few years have been some of the best in my life. I love academic culture, I love what I study and what I get to research. I have a lot of fun with my work and I am almost sad to leave when I graduate in June 2020. This has been a special experience and I really wouldn't trade it for anything in the world.

I really enjoyed grad school compared to just college. College was fun socially but I just didn't really like college culture. I partied a lot but towards the end I just outgrew everything and wanted to leave. Grad school has been much more intense and interesting than anything I did in undergrad.

So let's post something positive! Cheer up! Take a break, you deserve it! Have some wine and listen to some smooth jazz, you, yes you, are an academic now. 

Thanks for reading, *doctor.*",11,73,19.79142993400218,GradSchool
Some of the programs I'm applying to require a professor support you before you apply.,What is the best way to do this? Do I ask them or do I wait for them to ask me? Would flying out make a better impression?,4,2,19.812483174742926,GradSchool
Analysis Paralysis,"I’m currently in the process of writing my thesis, but I just can’t do it. I saw someone else call this phenomenon analysis paralysis and it really resonated with me. I am feeling so stuck and so lost in my writing, it doesn’t help my project didn’t really work out well (Masters thesis) but just all the data feels like crap so I’m having a really hard time with it. I made a big mistake in not writing throughout my thesis (learn from my mistake even if it’s a two page write up everything helps). 

I sit at my computer where I feel like I’ve optimized my set up with a desktop monitor/keyboard/comfortable chair (vs laptop at school desk) but I just get so lost staring at the screen. I get lost in the deep depths of excel files, papers, and folders within folders. So I grab something to distract myself in this viscous cycle of avoidance and then 2 hours have passed and I’ve done nothing. I have deadlines approaching that I don’t think I’m going to make, my brain just wants to shut off and sleep. I feel like I have put zero effort into this thing thus far

My supervisor I know wants to help but every time we meet she overwhelms me with information things to add things to change. I feel like I’m letting her down as my project and my enthusiasm has gone down the drain. 

I just want to be done but getting there seems like it’s going to be impossible. 

If you’ve made it this far thank you. I feel like this is a ramble and I appreciate you sticking around and reading this.",3,10,19.84825863770589,GradSchool
Just quit my PhD,"To everyone that's dealing with hard times and toxic lab situations, even if you're 3 years in, you can always quit. I did today after 3 days into  an industry job. My baby momma kicked me out of the apt I still pay for 8mos ago, and I've been homeless. My pi was never around and very negative when he was. I had finished all my classes, but completing a thesis under my circumstances wasn't feasible, so peace! And you can too.",2,7,19.854335026594775,GradSchool
Small rant: sometimes working with my advisor feels like screaming into the void!,"My PI and I have had a semi tumultuous relationship that is mostly worked out now. However, I’m helping to write a portion of a lab mates dissertation (coproject, I’m doing a base outline of materials and some results thus far) and my PI is SO UNHAPPY with my writing, and half the time it’s not my fault!

Six months ago I had diagrams of my experiments (flow charts, these are very complex multi step experiments that are hard to follow) when I showed him this in a PowerPoint form. He deleted my diagrams and changed it to words. Today I get into the draft of a word doc and the DIAGRAMS ARE BACK. Only drawn by him, and 10x more confusing than they were before. (Note: this is a semi common phenomena with him, we tend to have an experiment or two that he’ll shoot down until we’ve brought it up 3-4x and he’ll bring it up as “why don’t you do X instead” awhile later... so I should be used to it. It’s still frustrating when it’s a document you’ve spent over a week writing for a project you’ve been on for a year)

He also has notes halfway through a sentence where he asks for details that are provided at the end of the sentence.

He ALSO changed my buffer/reagent nomenclature and then has comments being confused about the buffer/reagent nomenclature when he is the one that changed it to where it does not make sense. (I.e. buffers were added with Y if applicable (and a table of buffers listed)  to buffer A was added with Y if applicable  (pi:why is it applicable?))

I know I just need to go into his office and discuss it with him (he’s very great at talking with us!) but I now feel like he thinks I’m incompetent when it’s not entirely my fault! His comments are meant to help improve me as a writer but I really dislike it when his comments are things that finishing the sentence would explain.",3,4,19.88252947103922,GradSchool
Does anyone else get so overwhelmed that they end up doing absolutely no work?,"I just started my PhD program a month ago and I find myself going through cycles of getting some things done, then spending days in my cubicle in the shared office space getting absolutely nothing done. I leave things for the last minute all the time. I go home early. I’m halfassing basic things. I can’t find it in me to care. 

This is what I want to do. I’ve worked so hard to get here. What is going on with me?

EDIT: Thanks for all the really kind comments and messages. The support has been great. But I just wanted to say that I wrote this comment while in a really bad mindset and it’s not representative of how I always feel or exist. This shit just gets hard and I’ve worked so hard to get here that I am exhausted so it fucks with my head when my background/age/race is thrown in my face to make me feel like I’m not doing enough or as much. It’s horrible. 


If I want anyone to take anything away from all of this, it’s to be kind to your cohort members because this PhD shit is hard. Also make everyone feel welcome regardless of their background, because you have no idea what they’re dealing with and kindness can do a lot to improve the culture of your program. ❤️",89,617,19.953675304372553,GradSchool
Telling your advisor you want to leave graduate school,"Hi, 

I often see posts on here about people leaving graduate school. I am currently in this position. I'm in my 3rd year of a PhD program, and I have obtained a Masters in another field (In a semi-related field, I'll say). Long story short, I have been struggling with depression and suicidal ideations for quite some time now since entering this PhD program. This stems from the fact that I feel PhD/academia life is simply not for me. I love the content my program, the faculty, my classmates & cohort. But the overall idea of academic work life depresses me in magnitudes I cannot explain.  I am uncomfortable with teaching and sitting down to write a manuscript is great at giving me thoughts of suicide.  I've talked with family, friends (outside of my cohort) & a therapist about this, but no one in my department is aware. I have so many fears of how this will affect people's perceptions of me. 

***As you may have gathered, I think it's time for me to take steps towards leaving graduate school.*** 

I need to start by disclosing to my advisor, right? This seems best to me. My advisor is aware I have struggles in mental health, but not the severity my mental health status. I do feel we have a good relationship. In fact, she was the reason I started my PhD program - I worked with her two years prior to becoming her official graduate mentee (I've known her for 5 years now). My hope is she will be understanding, but I am prepared for anything. I do always finish my work for her and I have worked/accomplished various tasks in our lab. But, I can't express what it is like to go home and simply feel empty and dead inside... For \~2 years now. I've tried, believe me, I've tried to work through this - But I need to accept that it is my time to leave. I love the thought of academia, not the actual participation.

I can't help but feel this conversation will be coming out of left field for her. How do I set up this meeting? I know it must start with an email, but how clear should I be in this email about what the conversation is about? To be quite honest, I don't know if I can have a face-to-face conversation without crying (I cry a lot in my current state). I am prepared for a slow transition out, I have accepted the inevitability of finishing up my semester, as much as I cannot bear the thought. I want to prepare her to hand off tasks. I am prepared to take a ""leave of absence"" if it is offered, but I cannot make any promises that I ever want to return to academia. I also have a lot of connections here on campus that I need to inform, but feel the intense desire to tell my advisor first.

Also, I do *not* plan on telling my advisor about my suicidal ideations - I have read that this only leads to a messy situation. However, I want to make it clear that my mental health is at stake.   


Thanks so much for listening. I really appreciate anything.",2,2,19.96497160066885,GradSchool
Graduate student union,"Hi all! A lot of negative things have been going on at my Uni/college. And the grad students realize we have no one to go. It’s too much to get into on a post, but I wanted to ask if anyone here is in a program in which your grad students are unionized? Please send me a dm, as I have questions about how the union helps you and (if you know) how the students unionized.

Thanks!

Edit: it looks like different states have different laws around whether or not grad students can unionize. However, I can’t find a list of what states allow it",4,4,20.010064193261442,GradSchool
Budget for Grad School Apps,"Hi all! 

I am helping my sister prepare for grad school apps, and it just reminded me of how expensive everything is! I want to ask the forum about approximately how much ya'll spent applying to grad school. 

I know that everyone's programs are different in regards to application fees, testing fees, test prep courses and review costs. I think that hearing different experiences is interesting though, so comment down below how much you spent on grad school apps in total and what you spent your money on.",6,3,20.052089656224407,GradSchool
Interim Postdoc/Pre-postdoc appointment and conferral date issue,,0,1,20.084786415483663,GradSchool
Terrified of Failure,"I'm about to start an MPhil in philosophy. It's a two-year master's-level research degree, and I'm hoping to apply for a PhD afterwards. I did my undergrad in philosophy and English, and while I got pretty good marks in philosophy, my English marks were relatively poor. The disparity in marks has me wondering whether my success in undergrad philosophy was just a fluke. I'm absolutely terrified of failing. I feel like I know nothing about philosophy.

I'd really appreciate some advice. I don't know how to get past this fear and it's affecting my ability to focus.",3,9,20.097402156224405,GradSchool
"Co-Adviser not communicating with each other, i'm lost.","I am a second year PhD student in the US so I am in the process of exploring and forming my new project.

I have two advisers, the project came from prof As lab. But prof A is very hands off and changes his damn mind about what the focus of the project is every time we meet. Prof B is hands on, but it's not really his project so he is letting me lead the way. Prof B does NOT seem to be communicating with prof A as he has no idea what the point of the project is. To be honest, i'm not sure I know anymore either because prof A is so busy and scatter brained.   


Should I just form a project myself and stop waiting for prof A to approve? How do I facilitate prof A and B working together to help me? (Schedule meetings with the both of them together frequently?) 

How do I not go nuts trying to wrangle the ideas of two people when I have no idea what i'm doing. I just need some guidance. I nee someone to tell me what to do... Im not an expert yet and need some help starting a project. Once there is at least one clear mile post I can focus on that and then plan for the next mile post and the next and slowly make progress. But god damn which ROAD AM I EVEN ON?",2,2,20.09985585992811,GradSchool
"Six students, one office",I’m wondering if anyone knows of any USA state/federal laws pertaining to number of people allowed in one office or people per square foot of space). With an influx of new grad students there’s now 6 of us packed into a single office (same size room as one faculty member’s office). And it’s extremely hard to focus with us breathing down each other’s necks. Of course I can go work elsewhere but nothing beats your own permanent space. I’d love to go to the departments administration about this but they won’t be responsive unless they’re breaking OSHA laws or something. Anyone have experience with this? Is fighting this a lost cause?,4,1,20.108420674742923,GradSchool
How did you decide grad school was what you wanted to do?,"Graduated from Washington University in St. Louis this past May, where I spent my senior year working on my honors thesis, on the Taiping Civil War (specifically how Qing propaganda affected understandings of rebel confessions), and really enjoyed the process.  It was obviously stressful, but one of the more fulfilling projects I've had the chance to work on in my 22 years.  Thought a lot about applying to grad school during this process and at the end of the day decided not to, due in some part to my lack of some necessary skills (my understanding of Mandarin is nowhere near where it would have to be to succeed in a China-based field) and a feeling that I should probably take some time off to figure out what it is about Academia that I really love.  Four months later, and a month into my first job, and I'm pretty sure I want to go back!  A big problem for me thought is that I no longer quite know what for.  I still really love what I focused on in undergrad, but have also realized that there are a lot of other things I'm interested in, some within the realm of History and other things that aren't.  I know I want to return to the learning environment I felt surrounded by in school, something I can't seem to spot anywhere in the professional world.  How did you know grad school was right for you?  Worried that I'm going to rush into applying just because I miss a vague feeling that grad school may or may not fulfill!",2,0,20.12823548955774,GradSchool
Planning and balance,How do you manage your coursework and life in general? Feel like I’m slipping through the cracks and my anxiety is constantly being triggered. Kind of worried. It’s my first semester in grad school.,2,2,20.137830396965146,GradSchool
How do you cope with burnout?,"I’ve been working on my dissertation research for 50-60 hrs/week for months, and I haven’t taken more than a day or two off. I only recently hit a wall, and I think I may be burnt out. My experiments are getting sloppy, my brain is foggy, but taking time off doesn’t seem to help me. It just makes me feel more anxious and neurotic and I have more time for my brain to invent fake problems to obsess about. I love this work because it is fulfilling, it gives structure to my days, and it’s challenging. I see a therapist and feel like I’m generally proactive about mental health. Yet still the burnout... and at a terrible time, when I need to be publishing. What should I do? Vacation? I feel like leaving town would be running from my problems. New diet? A book I should read? 

Obviously there’s no silver bullet solution, but I would be curious to know how other grad students cope with burnout.

EDIT: my projects are going well, I have a lot of data, my relationship with my advisor is pretty good, there’s a good community of grad students. Which is why I’m so puzzled about why I can’t get out of bed and go do my research!",9,11,20.151973915483666,GradSchool
I forget most of what I read. Does anyone have a good literature-reading strategy?,"I try to read fairly regularly, but looking back, I find that I forget the vast majority of what I read, *especially* when the papers are mediocre.  When there is a ""holy shit"" study, I tend to remember things much better, but even then, I only remember the overall gist of what was done.

Can we have a little discussion here about:

1)  How many of you have the same experience as I do forgetting literature that you have read?

2)  How much reading of literature really makes sense, given that most will be forgotten?  (assuming that forgetting lit is not something unique to me)

3)  For the literature that is significant and useful, should there be additional steps to really cement it into memory, or is having an overall gist good enough?

4)  How much information should we attempt to remember about mediocre papers?",3,1,20.16205493400218,GradSchool
Does it look bad to employers if you take a year off working to get MBA?,"Hi, 

I'm planning on getting my MBA for a year overseas (full-time). I'm new to all of this, I've been out of school and in the professional field for 6+ years now, I just didn't know if it was a con for a potential future employer seeing that I took a year off to go to school. Anybody have any insight on this?",4,1,20.178733174742923,GradSchool
UPDATE: Switching Advisors,"Original post [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d8pyy5/i_am_about_to_make_the_greatest_decision_ever/).

So what happened was, I asked the lady at the graduate program office to reject my current petition so that I can submit another one to change advisors. I had planned to bring this up to my advisor today in my meeting with him, but he got the rejection notification. Here's exactly what happened.

Advisor: What was that thing about something being rejected per request of student?

Me: Oh! I planned to tell you this after the meeting.

Advisor: Oh, why can't we talk about it now?

Me: We can. So, my research interests have taken a divergent path into security electronics, and \[new advisor\] is actively doing research in that area, so I will be continuing my PhD under his supervision.

Advisor: Well, that was one of my suggestions earlier when we were discussing options.

Me: I even told you, from Day 1, that my future is in academia, and I see a much more fruitful future in academia in pursuing that research area. It's absolutely nothing personal, strictly divergence in research interests.

Advisor: Yeah, ok. When is this effective?

Me: Next semester. If there's any final list of demands that you have for me, other than this current project, I'll be happy to meet before we part ways.

Advisor: The only thing I'll need is a report for this project. The end of the semester is in mid-December, so I'll get the report from you then.

So all in all, it went very well! Now I am working on the petition, and I asked my new advisor what other committee member he recommends (one of the requirements is that I have a committee member in the same research group).

Looking forward to finishing my PhD ASAP!",2,80,20.181314193261443,GradSchool
I'm finished! Submitting tomorrow. What a journey.,"https://www.imgur.com/a/lNBLhb8

Nearly 7 years of work. Through all the shit we went through with the animal rights activists.

I have 3 published papers (PNAS, J Neurosci and Exp Brain Res) and two to submit by next month (one submitting to Science, fkn hell hope it works).

But I'm dooooone.",18,59,20.272934563631814,GradSchool
What are some benefits commonly offered by graduate schools that students may not know about?,,40,43,20.273860489557737,GradSchool
Tablet/ereader for PDFs?,"I recently started a master's program, and I find myself reading a lot of textbooks, but also readings and papers distributed as PDFs. I don't find reading them on my laptop or phone very convenient or ergonomically pleasing, so I was considering buying a tablet or ereader for the purpose. I was wondering if other students had recommendations for devices they use to read PDFs.

The ability to annotate via touch screen is not necessary for me, but the ability to take occasional notes somehow (a bookmark here, a text annotation there) would be good.",2,2,20.282911415483664,GradSchool
Miller Analogies Test - How did you practice scores compare to actual score?,Taking it tomorrow and my practice tests have been really quite good. My Kaplan practice test scores have been a little lower (for me) while my official Pearson practices have been sky high. Just curious what actual experiences have been like since I cant seem to meet anyone IRL who has actually taken this test.,1,0,20.290955396965145,GradSchool
Getting overwhelmed as a new grad student,"I am a new grad student and have little research experience. In one of my classes, we need to study a research paper and present it, like we wrote it. I can't follow the Math in their at all. We also need to do a project that furthers the field. Most students already are working with their advisers and thus are submitting their old stuff as the project, but I am new, and not familiar with research. I don't think I can maintain the required GPA at all. Any ideas on what should I do?",4,33,20.298339656224407,GradSchool
Supposed to submit my initial thesis draft next week and I am miserable.,"Background: I was a great undergraduate student/researcher. I did well in everything, and rarely encountered problems in my coursework or research internships.

For my M.Sc, I have done equally as well in all of my classes (at a different school), and paid a ton of money (more than my funding) in rent, tuition, etc., putting myself in a financial hole. I’m now about to submit the initial draft of my M.Sc thesis. My supervisor wanted me to study a (pretty intense) paper about a subject that was completely new to me, and write my thesis so that he could understand the material of this paper without putting a ton of time in to work out the details.

I have done this. My supervisor acknowledges that my thesis has helped him understand the paper written a few years ago, so I should have no trouble having it accepted, right? Well, I have verified all of the results presented in the paper I am studying, putting the details in my thesis  with the exception of 2 calculations. I have been trying for weeks to verify them but I am unable to do so. My supervisor has the attitude that unless I can verify these calculations (that were done by a well respected researcher in the field and are definitely correct), that my thesis is incomplete and he won’t accept it. He also hasn’t offered to help much with trying to verify these calculations as they are “just calculations”.

I don’t know what to do. I have a meeting Friday to go over the “final” draft for my initial submission but I’m not going to be able to have what he wants by then. If he doesn’t allow it to be submitted because it fails to meet his standards, I don’t know how I’m going to handle it. I have been losing sleep, unable to eat, and generally feel nauseous trying to do my day to day routine because this is stuck in my head every day. This past year or so has been really rough on my family (lost family home in a fire after I moved, mother needs major reconstructive surgery on her knee in the near future, family’s closest friend was just diagnosed with cancer), and I feel like it’s all too much. 

I feel that, even though I’m so close to being done, if my submission gets shots down I should just step away from school and focus on sorting my life out because this is no way to live. Does anyone have any advice or calming words? I would really appreciate it.

Sorry for the rant.",15,70,20.340214656224404,GradSchool
Leaving Master's program early,"Hi all, 

Will leaving a master's program early (even if I'm in good standing- good grades/student, good relationships with faculty) be looked upon poorly when applying to other programs? For reference, I'm going to be applying for clinical psychology PhD/PsyD programs in the near future, but my general MS program I'm currently enrolled in is not working out for me. Anyone else have similar experiences or advice?",0,3,20.36553873029848,GradSchool
Neat tricks for literature search,,1,10,20.397888267335517,GradSchool
Thesis writing,"Hi!


I’m a baby bachelor student writing a bachelor’s thesis and I’m posting here because, well, I couldn’t find a subreddit for bachelor students. 


I’m originally from France but I had the great, great idea to go study abroad in Sweden where the writing of a thesis is required at the end of every cycle. 


I wrote my thesis in political science. Because of a variety of issues (lost my jobs, lost my apartment, couldn’t find a new one, had to move out of Sweden, broke up with my partner... you name it) I did not submit my thesis in time and I therefore did not get any supervision beyond the “formulating a thesis idea” phase. 


I first submitted my thesis in the summer and failed. Everybody else who first submitted their thesis in the summer without having gotten proper supervision, also failed. The comments I received were however encouraging and I fixed everything that needed fixing. 


However. My thesis made me borderline crazy and I can’t stand to look at it anymore. Whenever I would try and read it to see if it made sense, flowed properly, or had any mistakes and errors, it felt like reading in a completely foreign language.


I have no idea if my work is good. I have no idea if the logical process behind my work is directly intelligible. I know for a fact that the theory I picked wasn’t the best fit for my research–although my examiners said otherwise–and I had trouble trying to justify it through my essay. 


If I fail this time, too, I will get a very last chance, which is why I am fishing for advice here, so that I can wait for my results in peace. 


This thesis writing process made me realize that research isn’t my cup of tea. Writing 50 pages is extremely frustrating, I love writing less, I love writing more, but it felt like putting a duvet back into the sleeping bag the entire time. However, I pretty much have to keep going if I want to find work in my field. Should’ve been a baker instead but here I am. 


Would anybody here know how to better a dissertation when it feels like gibberish from looking at it all too much?

Thanks in advance!",5,4,20.430295674742922,GradSchool
Meeting potential PhD supervisor,"Hello!

After some back and forth with a potential PhD supervisor (immunology related), I finally met him to discuss his research a few weeks ago. I was really quite interested by the potential projects he listed and have sort of decided that I'd want to work with him should I get admitted.

I'm meeting him tomorrow to discuss the details of a project (topic still unknown to me) and I'm wondering what exactly should I prepare? I don't have an extensive background in immunology per say. A lot of the advice I've read and heard seemed to imply that the prof will use this time to see if I'm a good fit. 

I was overcome with nerves the first time I met him and basically acted like I had no working brain cells. I don't really want the same thing to happen this time round but I'm not too sure if it's even possible haha. 

Tldr; meeting prof to discuss details of a project tomorrow, not sure how much background I need to show/have or if any prep work is required of me.

Edit: is it rude if i take notes on an ipad or is pen and paper better?",6,5,20.56594382289107,GradSchool
"Has anyone done a Masters in Public Health (Australia)? If so, what was the program like and what kind of careers are out there?","Graduated in 2015 with a Bachelors in Science,  Physiology Major from the University of Western Australia, been self employed helping the family business but want to get into the health/medical industry again. The MPH programs I’ve come across within the state seem to be really good, however my uncertainty is how broad they are. Other than the technical skills gained through Biostats and Epidemiology, I am unsure if the rest of the programs enable the students to be job/industry ready upon graduation. Any advice would be greatly appreciated!",0,2,20.813050304372553,GradSchool
Serious question — how am I supposed to write a research proposal without any access to research?,"Ok maybe this will end up being a super dumb question that has an obvious solution that I was entirely oblivious to.

I have decided I want to back to university (UK) and study a research masters and subsequently (if all goes to plan) a PhD in human geography. The programs I’m looking to apply to require you to submit a research proposal with your application. The idea being you go into your application with a firm(ish) grasp on what your research field and research question is.

I have two ideas I’m looking into at the moment and am wanting to do some reading to identify gaps in literature and some questions I could delve into as well as get some background theory. 

The issue is: how the hell am I supposed to do any of that when I can’t access any papers/journals/articles online because they all require institutional logins/paid access?!

Am I being daft? Is there some easy way to access articles? I had access when I was doing my undergrad through my university’s login but now I’m alumni I can’t read past the abstract on a single paper!

Help?",6,4,20.878594285854035,GradSchool
Looking for a term: what are review articles called in gender or queer studies? (x-post r/academia and r/askacademia),"One of my friends has what I would call a review article they could publish. Sometimes they are called state of the field, state of the art, literature review article, or historiographies. Climate science has an entire journal devoted to just this type of article. However, I cannot find this category of article submission in gender or queer studies journals. Is there a name for this specific to that field? I have seen options for viewpoint and forum articles, are these what I am looking for?

&#x200B;

Thanks for any help you can give.",0,1,20.882355859928108,GradSchool
Felony Conviction Box on Apps,"Long story short, I am in the process of applying to graduate school for PhD programs in Environmental/ Natural Resource Economics. I have corresponded with my choice program (PERFECT research interest fit), and was told that I would be accepted based on my stats (although funding would be competitive). Now while formally filling out the application, I found the dreaded felony conviction check box.

&#x200B;

I have one conviction for 5 felonies. My sole arrest in my life. It was an arrest for the armed robbery of a drug dealer and related charges (conspiracy, fire arm possession, etc). I spent my time in prison and have done well since. Obviously I will explain in the space provided.

&#x200B;

My question is, though, is that check box typically an automatic dis qualifier?  Does that throw the application right in the trash? And if not for admissions what about funding?

&#x200B;

Any anecdotes or information from those on admission committees is greatly appreciated.",17,2,20.894728545113292,GradSchool
Should I let me supervisor know that I am going to start to see a therapist?,"For a few months I feel that my mental health is deteriorating. First, I thought it's just a bad phase which will pass eventually. But it has been more than 3 months and it seems that things are getting worse. This is affecting my research making it difficult to focus. I'm not sure if I am suffering from depression or anxiety, but I think it's better to seek counseling. I have an appointment with a therapist next week. I'm wondering if I should let my supervisor know about this. Just to clarify, my supervisor is in no way responsible for my condition. He is very nice and does not force me to work too much. I think my anxiety is due to some of the things I should be able to control. Only somehow I am failing to do so on my own. I would appreciate any advice. Thanks.",9,5,20.90622160066885,GradSchool
Has anyone applied for materials science and engineering masters of PhDs?,"I am intended to apply for MSE graduate degrees, but there is no undergraduate MSE department in our college. Hence I would like to ask about the advices and tips for masters or PhD applications of MSE grad schools, including GPA, test scores and most importantly research experiences. Unfortunately my current research field has barely anything to do with materials.",2,1,20.933166045113296,GradSchool
"Define ""research""","I often work with people who are absolutely mystified as to what exactly ""research"" is. I have my own ways of describing what I do, but I am curious. How do you describe your research or define research?",2,4,20.93522623029848,GradSchool
Do leadership positions/membership in clubs help with grad school admission?,"So basically we have these student organizations in UT Austin that I think are synonymous with clubs? 

There's a couple of organizations related to my major in physics (Undergraduate Women in Physics, Society of Physics Students, etc.) who basically ""provide a supportive community whose members share their experiences, advice, and ideas. We provide our members with outreach opportunities both within UT and the greater Austin area as well as resources for developing their future careers,"" whatever that means. There are like officers and roles in these clubs, too.

Would being in these clubs improve my grad school admission prospects?",4,0,21.0327609525207,GradSchool
Low Undergrad GPA *sighs*,"So my dream has always been to continue pursuing higher education but I really messed up in undergrad because basically, I stopped caring.

I was admitted to a prestigious university for undergrad, but I struggled due to family issues. My mother was terminally ill all throughout my first year and it was hard moving all alone to a different country. During the end of my first year, she was in the ICU and during my finals, I had to fly to my home country because she was about to pass away. It really killed me because she and I were the closest amongst my immediate family. I already was doing really poorly my first year and after her death it wasn't improving. I began to party every night and drink to drown my sorrows.

I still managed to graduate with a bachelor of science on time, and my GPA did slowly improve after the end of my second year, but I still ended up with a CGPA of 2.55.

Currently I am working at one of the best hospitals in the U.S and luckily managed to get a GRE of 165/156 (321). Right now, I am trying to get solid recommendations, and finish up my essays, but I was just wondering is there any hope for me to get admitted to a top 30 U.S school?

If anyone could provide some information or answers to my questions that would be fantastic! Thanks a ton!",4,0,21.042541045113296,GradSchool
1 month in and I'm already beginning to drown,"I knew grad school would be hard, but it seems I severely underestimated just how much. I feel like being an international student makes things harder than they need to be too.  

My first week here, I decided I'd eat healthy, exercise, and start talking to professors. I did all three, but none of the profs responded (ever). 

By the second week I'd already given up on eating healthy. I noticed others getting meetings with professors and a few already having found advisors. Some mentioned they'd be taking independent studies with a professor. I had one professor (X) contact me and I discussed one of her projects with her, which seemed interesting. While her research interests don't align with mine at all, this specific project was pretty interesting, and I guess that combined with the horrible panic of not having an advisor made me swap a course to an independent study with her.  

Week 3, I have chance meetings with some other professors, and they agree to set up meetings. I met one (Y), and he said he'd work with me this semester to try things out, but that I should take his advanced course, so I swapped another course to this one (now I have an advanced graduate course and an independent study). He tells me to read some papers on a topic and see if I might be able to implement them. 

Through poor scheduling, I didn't have a lot to show him next week, but he didn't seem to mind. The same week, I went to a lab meeting with prof. X, where we discussed more projects and I told her what I wanted to work on. She essentially told me that since I'm not an undergrad anymore, I should completely be in charge and decide how to proceed.

This past week, I wrote up a proposal for what I wanted to do for the prof. X's project, which I'll show her in a meeting tomorrow. I had also finished reading the 6 papers that I found for the prof Y, and I made notes on the papers along with possible ideas. I went to him with these ideas, except that he couldn't care less. He really only wanted where they were published, the runtime of the code, and if I could execute them. When I started talking about my ideas for the first paper, he simply cut me off and said, ""Next!"" (as in, move to the next paper).  

I feel like I'm back at square one. I don't know who I want as an advisor anymore. Prof X is a little intimidating, and her research interests don't align with mine anyway. Prof Y is really nice (and last week when I met him, he was the one who had asked to meet, so when I asked why he wanted to meet, he simply went, ""Oh, because I like you""), so I was shocked how dismissive he was today. I have a meeting with another professor tomorrow, but I'm not sure how that'll work out. And all through these weeks, I've been getting rejections for 3 papers that I had worked on with my undergrad advisor, which didn't help at all.  

At this point I just feel like I don't belong here and that I somehow wandered into a swimming pool where everybody somehow just knows how to swim.",2,9,21.098108174742926,GradSchool
Master Thesis Buddy,"Hello,   
I am currently writing my master thesis but I have no motivation. So, I would like to talk to someone who is in the same boat. It would be nice to exchange words about the progress, difficulties or whatever.   
And maybe we can find our lost motivation together :)",5,4,21.17184660066885,GradSchool
How much do you read daily in diss research mode?,"I am newly ABD in a hybrid social science/humanities field, but still primarily researching the literature, pre fieldwork. I have a ton of stuff to read and the list only seems to grow. I can finish getting what I need from a book in about a day (a few hours, so depending on the book I can go through maybe two or three), and probably a handful of articles otherwise. However, my reading and synthesizing is constantly underpinned by this gut-curdling anxiety that I am not ""doing"" enough everyday to be able to defend my dissertation in \~20 months (my imposed timeline). I realize that everyone's journey and stack-o'-documents to parse through is different depending on the project, but I was hoping to hear what your average daily workload was/is like during the research and early writing stages of your dissertation. For instance, how many books and articles did you find yourself going through per week, or per day?

Just looking for a little peace of mind, or...something.",1,1,21.22565447103922,GradSchool
"Does anyone here time track? How much time do you spend per day, on average, doing focused work?","By time tracking, I mean setting timers to record the amount of time spent on certain tasks/projects.

I track the amount of time I spend *concentrated* on solo work, and find that on a typical work day I'll get to about 4 hours of work done (I switch the timer off when I take breaks e.g. visit to the washroom, refill my bottle). Not including meetings or classes.

But 4 hours seems a little low to me... Would love to compare this to anyone else tracking their time.",5,5,21.22934660066885,GradSchool
I am about to make the greatest decision ever.,"My advisor is so quick to dismiss my ideas. “That’s not relevant,” “that’s not publishable,” “don’t waste your time,” “what is the significance?” That’s just the surface.

Last semester I took two very heavy classes, and he suggested them. On top of that, I was his TA. In March, he put me on a new project and expected basically immediate deliverables. I told him my classes were taking up all my time and that in order to keep the minimum gpa requirement for the project I need to put more focus on my classes. Once the summer hit, I tried to close the gap between where I was and where the project was, but both I and the project were moving forward. It was far too overwhelming. At that point, I was just doing what they told me to do on top of what they’ve already done while I was trying to keep my head above the water.

My advisor said that because of my lack of contribution he didn’t want to completely dismiss me so he wanted to talk about options. For this project, he’d only to continue to support me if I step down as an MS student because “you’re not being a PhD student; you’re doing what you’re told; you’re being a technician. Consider this your last chance.” He was also the source of a lot of drama and miscommunication. His approach was “throw her into the pool and expect her to learn to swim.” But I was in a condition where I was already drowning as is.

I consulted the grad office. I made sure I had nothing to lose. The thing about my university is I can switch back to PhD anytime I want to. So...to be funded, I temporarily stepped down.

I recently took an interest in another direction of research. I talked to one of the professors of a class I’m taking. He apparently is currently doing research in that area. That professor is a world renowned physicist. Very famous. When I told him about my position and warned him of my lack of experience, he said he will actively work with me, not against me. When I told him about how my ideas get dismissed, he knew exactly who I was talking about and said “yeah he is very close minded.” The cherry on top is I can actively practice my Hungarian too! (My fiancé and I plan to spend part of our honeymoon in Budapest.)

Not only did he listen to my ideas, but he said “let’s turn these into publications!” and “let’s write a proposal!”

He also said he’ll help me reach my target in graduating in two years because I already wasted 2.5 years. He also said my current experience helps tremendously.

Thank you for listening to my relief. :)",40,715,21.25636048955774,GradSchool
"Any help is highly appreciated, thanks!",,0,1,21.26329335992811,GradSchool
SUNY Buffalo taking an L,,3,5,21.28803873029848,GradSchool
Best Planner: App or Hand-written?,"I'm a fourth year graduate student in a Chemistry PhD program. I didn't really use a planner before graduate school, and now I feel so lost at work without it. Seriously had a breakdown in the middle of the summer when I lost my old one and tried using a regular notebook waiting for a new planner from Amazon. 

I do it hand-written because I feel like I remember my schedule better, but sometimes it's really inconvenient since it's usually at my desk. I would like to use an app/electronic calendar, but all the apps I've seen are very rigid. They want a time and date for everything, but a lot of times I just want to write down the task as a To-Do that can be flexible or as something that is done through out the day without planning every detail (example: if I'm running a purification for a protein, I dont want to necessarily write out every step of my purification, just to know that I'm running the purification on that day). 

I know this a personal preference thing, but is there anyone out there who could suggest an app (Android/Windows)? Or is anyone out there who advocates for the hand-written option?",10,3,21.30159197103922,GradSchool
Second year transitioning anxiety,"I feel like I just need to post this to get it out in writing, so apologies if people see my name and think “ugh this guy again.”

The 53rd week of my PhD program was last month officially marking the second year of my program, and the next term begins this Thursday. It should hopefully be my last term of classes and then I can take my quals come winter. At the beginning of the summer I felt so lost as it was my first time ever working 40-50 hours a week as simply a “researcher” and not as a “student doing research.” By the end of the summer i felt like i had finally started getting into a rhythm with work, having realistic standards of my performance, etc... Now that classes are starting back up my chest feels tight because it’s going to more than double my weekly workload and I’m ~freaking out~

Anyone else know this feeling? Kind of like a regression but flinging yourself forward and it just makes your chest feel kind of tight?",3,7,21.36474011918737,GradSchool
"Quiz: how green is your lab? Green lab programmes, in collaboration with the scientific community, are working to address lab-sustainability topics to minimize the environmental and social footprint of research.",,2,4,21.371522526594777,GradSchool
Working half-time during PhD?,"Hello all,

I’m applying for PhD programs in bioinformatics this fall with the intention to begin classes next fall. I’m currently working in industry full time, and already have a masters in an unrelated field. After discussing with my supervisor, I’ve been fortunate enough to work at a very flexible organization who would be amenable to my working half time (20 hr weeks) once I begin. Has anyone done this, working half-time in a career while taking PhD classes and hopefully eventually doing research towards a thesis? Is this the stupidest idea I’ve ever had?

Obviously I have a lot of time to figure this kind of stuff out, as I won’t be starting for a year.",9,3,21.399983174742925,GradSchool
Should I go for a MS or a PhD? And what are my chances?,"I have been conflicted lately if I should go for my MS first or go straight for a PhD. I am certain that I want to get my PhD, however I do not know if I can even get into a good PhD program with my comparably sub par research experience. I feel like my CV may look fine enough for a MS program but not quite yet for a PhD program.

Due to open graduate student position opportunities (aligning with my research interests) at these two schools, I have been looking at Ohio State University and Penn State University. Could someone give me their brutally honest opinion on whether or not I should just go for a MS over a PhD and also my chances of getting into one of these schools' ecology or environmental science-related PhD programs?

Here is a run-down of what my experiences and other info looks like:

**Research**

* Research Assistant for one summer in a toxicology lab assisting with studies on mountain-top mining bioaccumulation in mayflies
* Undergraduate research for about a year (with a grant from my university's office of undergraduate research grant) with two other people (grad student and another undergrad) doing tests on mesocosms with floating islands and testing different methods to examine nutrient uptake potentials. Since I got the grant with my friend, the other undergrad, I don't know if I should list this on my CV as ""independent research""
* Independent undergraduate research one summer through a NSF REU program at a university. I designed my own project on mercury cycling in the St. Lawrence River, conducted the experiments, and presented at that university's conference
* No thesis experience, in case that affects anything

**Conference Experience**

* Just one conference at that university's research and creativity symposium

**Awards and GPA:**

* Best undergraduate oral presentation award
* Best undergraduate poster presentation in sustainability award
* Grant for $1,000 for the above project
* GPA: 3.91

**Teaching Experience**

* No TA experience, but I did teach environmental science to 8th graders for a few months

**Publications**

* No publications; my professor from my REU says I will be listed as a co-author for the paper his masters student is writing, but it won't be done until next May, and I apply to grad schools in December

Any honest feedback would be greatly appreciated! I feel as if my experiences are very mediocre and less compared to some of my peers who got into a PhD program have CVs full of conference experiences, research experiences, TA experiences, some publications, thesis experience, and many various scholarships. I know I shouldn't compare myself to others, but I just want to know if Ohio State or Penn State's environmental-related PhD program would see me as a competitive candidate.",6,2,21.419091971039222,GradSchool
Does anyone else feel like there is no chance they will get their master's done in 2 years?,"I just started my master's. My advisor had a project for me before I started, so I got a field season in before my first semester of classes. This project is huge, daunting, and I'm not even sure if it'll qualify me for the degree I want. My advisor has been discussing field seasons into the summer of 2021 (my expected graduation date is May 2021), and I'm not sure what to do, because this project deserves the time and attention of someone who can do the work to figure it out.

Is anyone else in a similar situation?",10,7,21.484508637705886,GradSchool
How do you make friends in grad school when your program is online?,"Hi r/GradSchool, first year M.Ed student here. 

Over the summer after I graduated from undergrad, I was offered an assistantship that provides free graduate school. My assistantship has its ups and downs, but I am adjusting to it. The graduate program I am enrolled in is 100% online, and I have no social life. I work primarily alone in my role, and I don't know anyone in the program because it is online so I find myself spending every night alone. I am not allowed to become friends with undergraduate students, as I am considered staff even though I am pretty much the same age as most undergrads. How the heck do I make friends? Am I just doomed for the next two years? I feel like I am stuck, I know no one else in grad school and I am having a tough time adjusting with no social interaction.",5,0,21.813698452520704,GradSchool
"I knew the transition to grad school would be hard, but it's even harder than I thought",This is mainly just me venting but dang grad school is a whole different ball game from undergrad. I knew it would be tough and a lot of work but I feel like I'm constantly working and yet not absorbing or learning the material well enough. My semester is already 1/4 of the way over and I feel like I've accomplished nothing. I keep missing things in readings/class discussions that everyone else seems to get and I just feel stupid all the time :/,28,143,21.880839656224403,GradSchool
"Honestly, how much does the program you pick matter?","Lets assume all things are equal.

You have at least 2 advisors that are knowledgeable in your area of interest within your field. 
You've got funding at all options. 
Whatever else we take into consideration, I'm too tired to really get into the grit.

The only difference is...one school is Ivy League, one school is a top state school, one is a mid-tier state school, one is some hum-dink school, I don't know. 

Really what I'm getting at, does the prestigiousity (not a word) of the school really matter that much? Should we care that much? Did ranking of your program come into consideration when you were picking your program? Why or why not? As I look forward at my PhD and where I'm thinking of applying, I feel more closely aligned with present quality of life choices compared to the long-term impact of being in a well-known program, and I'm wondering how people weigh the two against each other? Is taking some sacrifices worth being in a big name school?",14,3,21.89258734140959,GradSchool
Advice for a newbie TA?,"I'm really excited to TA intro to diffy qs (a pretty basic math course for physical sci and math undergrads). I'm glad I'll have a job especially since my MS doesn't come cheap as an international student (thanks mom and dad!). 

I want to make sure I do the best possible job, and wanted to know what you guys had to say about being a TA and how not to mess it up. Also, if you have advice for managing time and your grad school work with your TA work, that would be nice too! Is there anything I should look out for in terms of the scope and terms of my job so I dont lose more time and money than I should?

Any advice is welcome and appreciated! Thanks!",1,2,21.903258637705886,GradSchool
How deep should you cite ?,"I am sure this has been asked but here you go again:

Say if I am doing some lit review in my paper and I read in Paper A that the effect X is caused by Y (Paper A basically cites Paper B for this statement). In this case, should I go read Paper B and cite it instead ? Because I kinda wanna repeat that X caused by Y statement, I felt like it makes no difference to cite Paper A instead of Paper B.

My understanding is that unless it is sth fundamental or theoretical, I don't have to go to the source paper. Any thoughts?",8,2,21.918582711779962,GradSchool
Grad Student Stipend Spreadsheet?,"Hello, I remember seeing a google spreadsheet on here comparing the graduate student stipends across the US, and also listing the fees, health insurance costs, etc., but for the life of me I cannot find it again. 

Maybe this isn't the right place to ask, but does anyone know where I can find that spreadsheet? Thanks!",3,16,21.924809563631815,GradSchool
When is it appropriate to talk to your department chair about concerns about a professor's teaching?,"Apologies, on mobile. 

I'm currently taking an American Government class that is required for my Master's. I've heard word circulate among the grad students that the professor is not good. I was talking with a professor I work closely with and she was surprised and confused to hear that Prof was teaching this course. Prof also teaches the 8000 'how to be a social scientist' class and I was told I was lucky to not have to take the class with Prof because half the class failed the last semester. Prof is not tenured, he has told us that he's been here 15 years and this is his first tenure-track job. I've got a feeling due to some things going on that Prof may already be being monitored by the department.

Being a social science, we usually do a lot of discussion. Not in this class. We break up into groups and each take a chapter from the assigned book and pull out the ""what's important"" about it. The Professor openly disagress with some of the thoughts of the authors we read, which I get why that's important, but it's hard to disagree with these larger ideas when you don't even know what you're supposed to be learning/don't have the knowledge yet to disagree with the professor. I (and others in the class) are struggling to learn in class and honestly this is one of the few times I've been more scared of not learning anything than failing. 

Since Prof likely isn't tenured, is it worth it to talk to the department chair about the class? I recognize these aren't egregious, but this is supposed to be Masters level work. Our book are really old too, I'm talking 2002/2003 talking about the presidency. I feel like the theories are no longer relevant and we don't have supplemental readings that are more recent.",3,3,21.934219285854034,GradSchool
Tips for quickly extracting information from review papers,"Hi there. I'm in clinical psych, and I'm being assigned hundreds of pages per week of review papers. The old read the abstract, look at figures, and skim the discussion isn't quite working b/c we aren't reading empirical articles. Any tips on getting through review papers as quickly as possible?",1,8,21.936835026594775,GradSchool
Eternal Debate: Academia vs Industry,"I’m currently in my second year of STEM PhD work, and just successfully defended my prelim. I really enjoy my project and research in general, and I’ve been generally feeling like I’d like to go into academia once I’m done. I generally enjoy interacting with students, don’t mind the grading and that work, and want to continue in research. However, more recently the debate has been growing in my head that maybe industry is a better option. Here’s why: while I’ve been productive in my research thus far and have gotten promising initial results according to my advisor, I’ve struggled with and don’t enjoy writing. I don’t think I would enjoy the constant grant writing and pressure to publish. I know it’s critical to publish to go into academia. Are there advantages to going into academia instead of industry? I am married and do not want to go into a postdoc because I want somewhere stable to go to start our family.

To me it’s like this: 
Academia: you’re in leading edge of research, get to interact with students but extreme pressure to publish meaningful results and get more funding. Pay is good but unless you achieve tenure it is not necessarily stable.

Industry: narrower research field if in research, but more stable. Pay can be good. 

Any advice?",10,5,21.97362900807626,GradSchool
How do I meet people after grad school?,"Hey y’all, I just finished my masters and I was wondering if anyone here could give me some constructive advice on how to meet people after grad school. I didn’t make any friends in grad school and I’m hoping for my social life to get better. I’ve tried some rev league sports but so far I’ve had little luck. Also I’m not especially interested in meeting people through the internet",3,4,21.98935817474292,GradSchool
Writing first manuscript ever! I am in a wildlife ecology program so will be submitting to journal related to ecology/biology/wildlife/conservation. How did you decide what figures should go in the main text versus the appendix versus supplementary material?,"I am most interested in how to decide what goes in the appendix versus supplementary material? Or are they the same thing? 

Thank you for the help!",2,3,22.057112804372554,GradSchool
How can I better support my PhD candidate spouse as the defense date approaches?,I'll keep this short and sweet- my spouse is nearing his defense date and he is worn out emotionally and mentally so often. I do what I can to help at home and support him. I'm hoping for suggestions I haven't thought of. Thank you for your insight!,5,2,22.126036415483664,GradSchool
Is it worth it to do a joint BS/CS before doing a PhD?,"At my school, it is possible to do a masters degree in one additional year. The program consists of taking graduate classes senior year and then sticking around for one more year to write a thesis/take more classes. If my aim is to do a PhD at a different school, is this worth it? I know a PhD (theoretically) takes less time if you go in with a masters because it gets you out of much of the coursework requirement, but do you think the chances are high that I will end up having to repeat some of the courses anyway?

&#x200B;

Also, what are your thoughts on these kinds of programs in general?",3,1,22.168200767335517,GradSchool
Anyone else having a hard time working in coffee shops??,"I know it's very classically a good place to go to work with groups on projects when you wanna get out of the school building, but I find myself getting either really distracted or just draining my wallet. We have a local coffee shop next to campus but I always find it distracting hearing all the brewing machines going and constantly smelling that caffeine. I know it sounds CRAZY but sometimes literally just the aroma of coffee can make me jittery or anxious. Has that ever happened to anyone else?",5,1,22.207379008076256,GradSchool
Exploitation in the wrong areas,"I am going on my tenth hour of grading Exam 1 so bare with me. While grading all I can think about is the other stuff I have to do in order to get myself back into lab. ""Lab"": the place where you do the real work that actually contributes to your dissertation. It is great that being a TA allows me an opportunity to be paid while being educated but...thats complete bull shit marketing that profs and admin spew.

I am a fourth year org.chem. student and I spent a few years in industry in-between undergrad and grad schools. So I am a fully trained lab manager in my group at this point. I train new students, I manage multiple projects, I create new knowledge, and I push our group forward with my lab work (not always, but at least 20% of the time). The dept as a whole is the third largest revenue source for the university (1. Football 2. gymnastics). Our department pulls in multi million dollar grants, half of which ends up at the grad college (or where ever) in ""Overhead"" as the grant money comes in. This is research that rests on the motivation and drive of grad students not unlike myself.  

So as I sit here, I keep wondering why the fuck I am not being sponsored by the department to strictly do research? There is no reason I should be forced into a TA spot as a 4th year; it seems to me, the university would benefit greatly by sponsoring research assistant-ships that will actually bring more financial security to the university.",3,3,22.224844285854036,GradSchool
How to afford publishing fees?,"I have been lucky to get grants for publishing, but what do you do if you are not lucky? Some faculty have grants that they will let you in on, but that is often not the case (at least not in geography). We are expected to publish, even as grad students, but each one is thousands of dollars. Do other fields have a way to handle this, or is it a much more common problem?",5,1,22.239821137705885,GradSchool
How do I decide what lectures/meetings/colloquia I should go to?,"Looking at my schedule for the upcoming year, there's loads of stuff I *could* do and probably *should* do, but I know that if I tried to do it all, I'd just die. Even after just narrowing it down to things directly relevant to my thesis, I'm looking at, per week:

 - 5 hours of group meetings and journal clubs: all relevant to part of my thesis

 - 4 hours of seminars and colloquia given by the department: I have to attend to clean up afterwards anyway

 - 1 hour for student seminar: practicing giving talks

 - 1-2 hours for outreach: effectively required for my funding

 - ~3-4 hours for lectures (even more for homework): bare minimum of classes I didn't get to do in undergrad, needed to start a theory PhD

 - ~3-4 hours for supervisions: having some tutoring/teaching experience would be useful for the job market

So given that I need to have my degree handed in after 3 years, I know I need to work really hard and I don't know if this kind of schedule is going to screw me over. I was hoping to add more statistics and computing on since I'm kinda weak in both areas, but that'd be another 2 classes and put me up another 3-4 hours a week in lectures alone. Having 8-week terms means classes are really intensive. 

And this is really the bare minimum I could get it down to if I just wanted to satisfy my thesis, but I feel like I *should* learn more about other areas too, or will colloquia really be enough? 

I'd like to not be working 9am-8pm as well, I was hoping to get a better work-life balance going and stay a bit healthier. I'm genuinely concerned that this is going to be more than I can handle. I'll talk to my supervisor about it when he gets back, but also wanted to get all of your opinions too (especially if you're on a 3-year programme!)",1,5,22.286580396965146,GradSchool
How do you use Zotero to organize a dissertation?,"I've always used JabRef, because it produces a nice bibtex file for working with Latex. My understanding, though, is that zotero can do something similar, plus it's better for organizing sources. How is it better for organizing?",6,3,22.302691508076258,GradSchool
"Graduated last year with BCS, confused about which direction/area to pursue in masters",,0,0,22.31159197103922,GradSchool
Who is stealing your time? People who should be discarded,"1. *Constantly late.* Force majeure happens, and everyone can be delayed due to circumstances beyond his control. But there are people who just do not know how to arrive on time. And the most unbearable thing is that they really do not see anything special in it. Just think, only half an hour had to wait.

2. *Manipulators.* Such people you can meet from school. They ask to decide an example for them, because ""it’s hard for you, or something."" They play on our sense of self-importance, because they ""will not succeed, not like yours."" Suffer and complain. It’s not always possible to immediately bite through the manipulator, and you really want to help. And then it turns out that you were just doing someone else's work.

3. *Whiners.* We’ll immediately decide: you can’t take any complaints, the desire to share and other expressions of emotions as nagging. Each person has the right to experience their feelings, this is the key to psychological health. But there are people who clearly abuse this right. Their problems are always more important than yours. They can complain about life without stopping. And you don’t really understand what is needed from you. Attempts to help solve the problem rest on the endless ""yes, but ..."".

By the way, join new interesting subreddit where you can find help with your homework: r/BestEssayWritingHelp",5,0,22.334242434002185,GradSchool
Trump-appointed majority on National Labor Relations Boards begins process to remove graduate students’ right to unionize,,9,13,22.465226230298477,GradSchool
I made a bot that writes a research abstract with you (trained on 200k papers),"I've been a little obsessed with training machine learning on datasets and made a bot that tries to write research abstracts with you (amongst ... other things). 

I'll be the first to admit, the science terms it generates isn't always real (but sometimes is, it really likes to use Gauss-Newton) and it can make up fake sounding algorithms, but I hope you can get to use it as a way to brainstorm. Okay, it's probably more for laughs than of practical. 

[Research Abstract Generation Bot](https://writeup.ai/research)",55,483,22.48227484140959,GradSchool
Masters options that are management centered but have a technical side as well,"Hey guys! I've done my bachelor's in economics, and am now looking to apply in Germany for my Masters. 

I want to do something that has business management as well as some technical skill. For example, Data Analytics and Business Management. I have no idea if any such degree exists. Or Business Analytics and Management. 

Could anyone list any Masters degrees like these that are being offered in Germany/Norway/Denmark/Sweden?

Thank you!",0,0,22.531013267335517,GradSchool
How much money do students in The US/Europe spend on textbooks and other related expenses?,"Hello everyone!

I am an undergrad here in India. The cost of living is incredibly low here compared to the US or even the Europe. I pretty freely buy text books and reference books that I need. I do not have even one book that costs me more than 10$. Not even one. But that would obviously not be the case in the US. Moreover, here, if there is a book that is not available locally, or is not on Amazon India, I can go to library and get the book for myself. If not, I can always use a pirated pdf.

Now, I have seen memes and some serious posts too about how books are extremely expensive and that it becomes compulsory to buy those books. Is this true?

1. How much do you generally spend on such stuff in a semester?
2. Is it compulsory? Why can't I borrow one? Or use a pirated one? Why do you **have** to buy the books?
3. What else can I do to minimize the cost?

Thank you very much. If it matters, I will be a Physics Major.",9,3,22.653131322891074,GradSchool
Interested in PhD in Literature or Philosophy or Theology,"I am interested doing a PhD in a *qualitative* subject *employing ""soft skills""* (like Literature, Philosophy or Law or Film or theology or history).

I am primarily interested in :

1. a grad school which will permit me to have a Teaching Assistant-ship so I may have a stipend and waived tuition charges
2. a program that will let me study Plato, Aristotle and the substantive Greek philosophers/ historians (Xenophon, Herodotus etc.) and permit me to write my thesis on them.

I am looking for universities which may help in this regard anywhere in the US or abroad. It is important that the university have decent people in them and not folk who are insincere or impolite or do not have my best interest at heart.

EDIT in italics",7,0,22.73670771177996,GradSchool
Can a Psychology Major get a Masters in HR?,"I’m a senior in college currently aiming to graduate in Spring 2020. I am majoring in Psychology, but am now realizing that HR is probably a better career path for me. I was interested in I-O Psych but am not much of a statistics person (and I heard data and statistics are very important if you’re going into I-O Psych). I just completed an HR internship this summer, so I have a little experience (even if I mostly just did easy tasks like copying and filing papers and phone screenings). My boss at my HR internship said I was the most efficient intern they had ever had, but honestly it wasn’t hard work so their old interns must have been pretty slow.

Is it unrealistic for me to want to get a Masters Degree in HR at this point? I’m worried that I will be less likely to get into a masters program, or get hired than those with a degree in HR. I have a pretty good GPA and a great work ethic, but I‘m hesitant to jump into a masters degree just to get rejection after rejection.",12,0,22.81553873029848,GradSchool
How do I pay for PT school?,"I’m trying to figure out how on earth I’m going to afford tuition for a doctorate of physical therapy program. I currently receive Pell grant and have less than $10,000 in savings. Current have about $7,500 in loans. 

How on earth do I pay for this??",2,1,22.83442761918737,GradSchool
FLAS Funding,"Could FLAS funding effectively cover the tuition and fees of a year of grad school? The tuition for the program I am interested in is 13,000$ and FLAS funding is up to 18,000$. I understand that I would have to be enrolled in a language and area studies course each semester for a specific to receive the funding, but does this mean that the rest of my tuition would be covered by the award as well?",0,0,22.84683502659478,GradSchool
Completely stressed/burnt out and seeking advice,"2nd year MS student and last year I did really well by pushing myself hard and believing in myself and all that, but then I started to get SO burnt out. I realized this summer that the kind of work I want to do and think I could sustain isn't stuff you need and MS for, and is pretty unrelated to my research, but it also wouldn't hurt to have the degree and I figured I'd come so far I'd keep going. And now I'm under so much stress it's physically painful.

I flip between burnt out and stressed out frequently. In burnt out mode I completely don't care and feel like just avoiding everyone and failing out and being told to leave, which is like, why even bother being here then, so I start to try again, and I get stressed out. In stressed out mode my nerves go crazy and I can hardly sleep or relax and I start to feel SOOO anxious and depressed and miserable... that I get burnt out again. I'm already down to the minimum number of classes and working out every day and seeing a therapist and reading self help and doing everything I can to take care of my mental health... but it's not enough. I feel like I'm just not cut out for this and want to quit. But most people in my life (except my amazing, unconditionally supportive husband) keep telling me I'm almost there and to keep trying and it will get better. When is it the right choice to give up on grad school? How do you explain it to the people who don't get it? Especially to an advisor?

I finally was open with my advisor about how much pressure I've been feeling and being tempted to quit and she's suddenly been SOO much more kind and helpful and is wanting me to keep going on this project. But it still feels like too little too late cause of the crippling pressure I still feel (maybe I should have been more open sooner oops). My ideal would be to completely switch tracks to a different and totally unrelated project that's just vaguely in the same field because I'm so unmotivated by my current research. I thought I cared about it at first, partly cause it's prestigious and has funding, but at the end of the day I just don't. Even when I care I only care about the commitment I've made and the vague idea of of it not personally being involved in the research. But that's just not enough to get me through this rough patch without failing. Does anyone have advice or can relate to this?

tldr; I don't feel motivated at all by my research anymore and alternate between being burnt out and wildly stressed out to a breaking point. I'm over halfway done with my degree though and am deciding what the next step is right now- seeking compassion and advice",4,4,22.906684563631813,GradSchool
Sustainability/Responsible Tourism Programs in Europe?,"I'm a dual citizen (US/Portugal) and am looking to further my studies. I currently work in the tourism industry, and am interested in the idea of both sustainable business from an environmental & moral responsibility perspective, as well as building sustainable/responsible businesses in general. 

As a dual citizen, I'm hoping to discover some programs in Europe that hit on this subject. I'm looking for programs in Europe partially for financial reasons, and partially just for the experience. I have solid language proficiency in both Portuguese & Spanish, which may help my search, but I don't want to limit myself to those countries necessarily. 

I'm hoping /r/GradSchool has some suggestions for Universities & Programs to look into, as well as any personal experiences that may help color my decision. 

Thanks in advance, y'all.",0,1,22.929508637705887,GradSchool
Masters options for someone with an BS in EXSC,"Hi I'm new to community and would appreciate some advice. I graduated with my BS in Exercise Science and am in the process of applying to Dental school and PA school. PA school is my back up, however I graduated with a 3.3 GPA so I'm not confident that I'll get even get into PA school as my backup. 

  
So my last resort is some kind of master's program, but I'm not too familiar with masters programs. I know for a fact that I wouldn't want a masters in EXSC. I've considered an MHA and will most likely find programs to apply to but I want to know if there are similar options to MHA. I want to stay in healthcare for the most part. 

&#x200B;

Any advice would help, thanks.",3,2,22.94696234140959,GradSchool
How did you choose your focus for your Msc in history when applying? How focused was it?,"I'm intending to apply to UK schools for an Msc in Medieval History (mainly British) and after reading forums about applications/focus/statements I am starting to think I don't know enough about what I want to study to apply? I know I am interested in relations between the state and the church. I am very interested in churches/monasteries and castles from this period and area, their construction and how the churches and monasteries basically housed all of the documents. I also find the rule of religion really interesting and literacy (palaeography workshops at school were fun). I find the wars interesting, just everything. But reading people's focuses they applied with I'm like okay mine is too general. I haven't read all the manuscripts from this era, I'm much more versed in early modern Britain because that's what the profs at my uni specialise in. It's interesting, but not my favourite. I don't know a specific saint I want to focus on from specific town during a specific time. I am just concerned I'm not actually prepared enough.",1,2,22.955318822891073,GradSchool
I feel like such an idiot,"I just recently started my first year in a PhD in chemistry and made the mistake of choosing quantum as it was one of the classes a potential advisor required (big mistake, ended up not liking his group and am joining a different one). I thought I'd be relatively fine but I was dead wrong. The professor initially stated that ""it would be taught as if we've never taken quantum before"" but almost 4 weeks in and I have absolutely no clue what's going on. The homework assignments cover things he off-handedly mentions or applications of things taught which I have no idea how to apply. It seems it requires some form of abstract thinking I am just not grasping. When I ask others in the class they seem to sorta understand it and I just don't know what to do. I feel like I've made a massive mistake by taking this class. I feel so fucking stupid and am questioning if I even belong here. Im on the verge of tears thinking about not getting a good grade in this class. Im also partially funded by a fellowship which requires a 3.0 and Im 100% sure Ill lose it after my first semester. There are a few other classes Im taking but most don't assign letter grades and the other class which I absolutely love and am doing good in would definitely *not* offset the inevitable drop in my gpa.

Has anyone else gone through this before? I would appreciate any advice.",8,5,22.984705396965147,GradSchool
Disserta-done,"The final version of my dissertation is off to my committee tomorrow - hallelujah! I thought it was never going to end.

I thought I’d feel more relieved or something going towards the end, but all I really want is for it to be off my desk and focus on the actual defense.

Anyone else experience this lack of relief? I’m proud of my work and my dissertation, but I just kinda never want to look at it again after I submit it.",5,26,23.007598915483666,GradSchool
"Former math/stats major, now starting social sciences Phd. Nervous about petitioning out of required stats courses.","So since I already took a course in stats inference and regression (as well as lots of probability) in undergrad a few years ago, I petitioned out of having to take two required social science statistics courses offered by my department. It's generally recommended to petition out if you have the relevant experience. It's cool because it frees up two classes, where I can take other quantitative electives or even stats classes in my or other departments instead (e.g. econometrics).

I've already petitioned out, but I'm starting to have cold feet. I don't actually remember the content of the math/statistics courses I took. What if I take a third course in the sequence of stats classes and choke without having taken the first ttwo that I tested out of? What if I can't learn Stata well enough in a pinch (my previous coursework is in R)?

&#x200B;

Have any of you ever dealt with this/do you have any advice?",3,0,23.12761048955774,GradSchool
Quick Survey on PhD Program Provision of Work Computers,,0,2,23.12815447103922,GradSchool
Where do you work on Sundays?,"So I recently moved back to my hometown (about a 45-minute train ride from Penn Station in NYC) and I'm looking for a quiet place to work outside of my home. Monday-Saturday I usually go into the city or walk a little over a mile to the public library in town. But on ***Sundays*** the trains into the cities are painfully slow, the library is closed, and the very few coworking spaces available are only open on weekdays.

I guess I could go to a local coffee shop? but they tend to be loud and the tables are small and make it hard to keep all of my research out and within reach.

Please tell me I'm forgetting some facet of American life that can accommodate a grad student on Sunday.",9,6,23.130064193261443,GradSchool
Applying to PhD programs in related fields,"Hey folks, I'm applying to PhD programs this year and am considering programs in two different departments at the same univesity. My undergrad is in geography, and my masters is in urban planning. Personally, it does not matter to me if I'm an urban planner with a geography background or a geographer with planning experience.  Does anyone have experience applying to two different programs at the same university, and how prospective advisors viewed it? Should I let prospective advisors know to what programs I'm applying?",1,1,23.14821234140959,GradSchool
Does anyone else feel like their PhD thesis is underwhelming?,"I'm in the middle of writing and I'm just feeling a little underwhelmed by my work. It's a new method for an application area and I believe it's impactful enough, as people in this area seem to be interested and my committee seems satisfied.  

However, during the writing of the thesis it just feels very underwhelming. When I think about a PhD thesis, I imagine a huge document with dozens of proofs, and a very high level of technical complexity. This isn't like that at all. An undergrad could understand the mathematical parts. Being an application area, there are zero proofs.

It just feels like I'm cheating out the PhD by picking an application area which doesn't require me to provide a lot of theoretical rigor. Can anyone relate?",33,226,23.1546359525207,GradSchool
Anyone else struggling to learn R?,"I am in a water resources program and I find the majority of work very fascinating. But my thesis work is looking at a year’s worth of two minute intervals of rainfall and chemistry data. I have no interest in using R after I graduate and I’m really stuck motivating myself to figure out how to code to do analysis of the data. Learning a programming language isn’t something I thought I would be doing but it is delaying my progress enough that my advisor is coming down hard on me now. My lab group is also not cooperative at all, fostered by my advisor’s “I don’t understand why you can’t just figure it out on your own” attitude and no SOPs despite everyone using similar monitoring methods. Any advice on how to “just do it?”",18,16,23.158096600668852,GradSchool
Which is Better for MPA?,"Second tier programs that offer full funding, or first rate schools (like...Yale) that offer little to no funding? 

Top tier schools come with name recognition, which for something like an MPA is fairly valuable - correct me if I’m wrong here. The obvious downside to those schools is they’re much more selective in who they award fellowships, TA positions, etc., which means loans would be necessary. 

By second tier schools, I don’t mean places you’ve never heard of, more that their MPA programs aren’t ranked in the top 25. 

Advice from current/former MPA grads from all backgrounds and schools would be greatly appreciated. This is all catching up to me, and I’ve got to make a decision soon. 

Thanks in advance, y’all.",3,1,23.254971600668853,GradSchool
Masters in 3D Computer Animation vs Masters in Virtual Reality,"Hello, just wanted to ask the opinion of others who may have knowledge of the current job market better than I do.

The university I'm strongly considering offers an MA in 3D Computer Animation, Character Animation, and Virtual Reality.  I want to get my Master's to be considered as an animator at some of the top-dog studios, or even get into video game and news networks. Virtual reality was never really in my plans.... but, here's the thing: how can I *not* consider it. I'm qualified to apply for it. It just makes me wonder, is the virtual reality market going to explode, or is it something that will seem cool for 3 years and then fade out, like the Wii? Would getting my Master's in Virtual Reality be the best decision I ever made, or a waste of time diverging off my life plans?

Essentially, what are your thoughts on the profitability of Virtual Reality?",2,2,23.278953082150334,GradSchool
Prospects: I/O Psych vs Public Policy,"hey guys

i once had big dreams of being a German professor (I have a BA in German Lang & Lit.) then i decided TESOL was a better, wider spread career opportunity.

now that I'm teaching English in Spain... i just want a stable job lol. i thought i would like the hustle of yearly contacts, private lessons on the side, under the table money, etc. etc. things with my GF (telecommunications engineer) are getting serious and we are talking long term plans (where to live, family, etc.)

there are two good programs i could get into, one Governance and Public Policy, and one I/O Psych. 

i know they are pretty wildly different, but looking into what each semester entails, i think i would enjoy either pretty substantially.

as an aside, i am a US citizen who can speak German and Spanish (fluent), and my GF is an EU citizen. i am open to a grad program in Germany or Spain / the US.

any thoughts on these as terminal degrees? i really have no interest in a PhD or another master's afterwards. am still considering staying with TESOL if there is something I am missing in terms of career longevity, but I don't want to live in China or struggle to get jobs every year",3,1,23.337089656224407,GradSchool
Citation and Common Knowledge Advice,"Hello World!

I am working on a cumulative/ e-portfolio project and I am wanting to include some “research” or “detailed notes” excerpts from my archive into a section displaying some of my previous projects. 

The majority of what I want to display doesn’t include traditional references but are from a professional online “course/training” from work as an intern.  

Though they are notes, they are delivered in a way that is highly detailed and formatted including diagrams and drawings that differ slightly from the original source, but the information is the same. 

TLDR: 

What I am stumped on is that in the field this would be common knowledge and I don’t want to professionally put out work that isn’t “mine”. However, the information obtained from the source is very concise, and I don’t want to muddle the work to claim it as my own. 


Question: How do I go about this?",1,1,23.457656785854034,GradSchool
grad school for Spanish (US vs. international),"Hi, I'm a good ways out from even applying to graduate programs as I've still got another year of Peace Corps service left, but I'm trying to narrow down where to begin looking into programs. Did my BA in Romance Languages (specializing in Hispanic literatures and cultures) and Linguistics, and would love to find a way to combine those fields, but I'm also really interested in potentially doing my master's abroad...which leads to my question of ""where on earth should I look?"" So I guess I really have a few questions...

a) for a master's degree in something to do with Spanish, does it really matter if I pursue that in the US or should I be fine looking in Spanish speaking countries (or even somewhere random in Europe?)

b) does anyone have any recommendations or experience combining literature studies and linguistics

c) how important is it that I know straightaway what specifically I want to do this for (I honestly just enjoy studying, don't know yet if I want to pursue a PhD and academia or get out after a master's and then what on earth to do with it once I've done it)

Sorry if I come across as a bit clueless, I've tried just jumping into google and all that did was give me too much information that I have no idea what to do with. Thanks in advance for any words of advice!",0,1,23.45849011918737,GradSchool
A bunch of questions about writing and submission (masters thesis),"This has been a big change from standard coursework that I dont know what I am expected to do. I have just started writing my thesis, i did my lit review throughout the year to ease the pressure but it is piling on (40 days from draft submission).

A bit about my research. It is in Machine Learning specifically autonomous vehicles. one of my research questions has been explored but not publicly (only by large companies, not released) where as the others have not (AFAIK). 

I guess my questions are:

What can I understand from a markers perspective, what do they want?

Am i suppose to show a practical implementation of my outcome?

How do i get past 'mental writing roadblocks'?


My supervisor is very good as answering any queries i have in regard to my actual work and field, but gives very abstract answers to general thesis questions. So i dont know what to make of them. 

thank you",4,3,23.63045771177996,GradSchool
Going to Grad School while in the Reserves.,"Hello, I am currently working on a bachelors degree in cyber security/policy.

I was considering getting a masters degree, and I was also considering joining the Naval Reserves (USA), so I could have more income.  My only concern, is the effects this could have on my grades.

I know Grad School can be rough, and requires a lot of time.  In the reserves I would have to dedicate and entire weekend every month to the Navy.

Has anyone here been in a similar position?  Is it doable?  Thanks!",4,2,23.78508734140959,GradSchool
16-year old applying to a biostats PhD program,"Hi everybody,

First off, I'd like to explain my non-traditional situation. I'm currently attending a lower-end university through a program that allows teenagers to essentially skip high school and move straight towards obtaining their Bachelor's degree. I entered this program at age 13, and moving into my senior year, I'll be expecting my degrees at age 16. I currently have a double major in Biochemistry and Mathematics, with both BS degrees expected in December 2019.

Lately, I've been considering attending graduate school in biostatistics for a PhD. For my math degree, I've taken linear algebra, Calc I-IV, real analysis, ordinary differential equations, numerical analysis, and an extremely basic statistics course. My composite GPA is a 3.97, and I've taken the GRE: 168V/170Q/5.5 essay. I have held a couple of student leadership positions in government and in various clubs on campus. For my application, I do know I'll have one stellar recommendation from my math professor, and two other passable ones from faculty in biology and biochem.

For my research, I have two senior theses written at school, but neither of them have too much to do with statistics. Additionally, I don't have any background whatsoever in computer science, but I'm trying to implement some Python into my math thesis, which I'm currently working on, to show that I have some proficiency in a coding language. In addition to this, I worked for a summer at a research lab in China, but it was only for a period of about 2.5 months. 

I wanted to ask around for my chances at admission to a top-tier graduate school program. I know that with my age, many programs could be hesitant to admit me due to questions about my maturity, or whether or not I'll be ""ready."" I'm mainly concerned about my lack of higher-level statistical courses, and the fact that my current undergrad institution is extremely low-tier. With a quite unique case like mine, do you guys have any advice in particular I should follow moving forward? What are my chances at getting into a PhD program?  I greatly appreciate any insights you guys could give towards my situation.",21,0,23.81126789696515,GradSchool
Is anybody else dealing with constant memory loss? I forget anything that isn’t my class material including my address and schedule,"screams loudly into pillow because I constantly look really stupid in front of my classmates

edit: okay it is really comforting to know I am not alone. Yeah it must be stress, which is annoying because not remembering things is causing stress",50,245,23.87877947103922,GradSchool
Stressed,"I just started my graduate program this semester. I am an RN and pursuing my masters in informatics. This will help me to pursue a career in nursing informatics. I am stressing that I have taken on too much and that I can’t do this. I work full time and have a 10 month old daughter. I am no stranger to hardwork. Nursing is my second career and I took classes at night for nursing while working full time. I am very dedicated and motivated. However these computer science classes are almost like another language to me. I’m surviving (I have As so far - but just assignments and quizzes no exams). I’m only a month in and feel very overwhelmed. I don’t know if i should drop a course (I’m taking 2), or stick it out and hope i make passing grades in both. I can’t decide 😩. I really want to complete both courses but also don’t want to end my chances with the program if I don’t get a passing grade in one or both courses. Any advice?",8,2,23.889358174742924,GradSchool
How do you manage having to read a lot of papers at once?,"I’m working on a research proposal and I’ve got a bunch of papers to read. Do you all speed read? Only the intro, discussions, and conclusion?",8,14,23.98846697103922,GradSchool
Desperate for advice,"How do I even start this post... I guess with the fact that I am absolutely desperate for advice. I am a Master’s student in the field of ecology currently trying to finish up my thesis on edge effects. However, I am nearing the deadline for when my whole paper is due (11/1) and I do not have a proper discussion written. I also keep making stupid editing mistakes and I can tell my advisor is fed up with me. If I do not draft a great discussion, my advisor will not let me defend this semester. I need to get out. So, I am practically begging, **what makes a good discussion? What are your writing tips? How can I make this discussion section of my paper perfect on the first draft? **

I have a draft written, but I feel like I am rambling and speculating about my results and that it all means nothing. 

TL;DR: Please help me, what makes a good discussion section?",27,26,24.054369748817,GradSchool
Recs for schools strong in post-1945 British history,"Title says it all. Applying for graduate programs (MA or PhD) and my list of schools is fairly short. I need to broaden my list for a better chance. So far I have NYU, Columbia, U of Washington, Boston College.",5,0,24.117008637705887,GradSchool
Need advice,"Hello fellow grad students, I hope you’re doing what you thought you would be doing in grad school. 

I’m going a RA for the protect I’m interested in. However, some assignments from my supervisor take ton of time from me because of not having appropriate skills. For example, he asked me to sort very raw and messy data in excel that I’m not  capable of. I spent 6 hours yesterday working on it and I could barely sort a half of it. He’a a very understanding professor and always encourages me to ask for help, but it’s difficult because he’s traveling a lot and via email I can’t get how to work in excel, I need to see it. 

Do you think it would be rude if I told him that I have a really hard time using excel for his assignments and I would appreciate if he could invest in me studying the program? We have a huge database we need to work on and I’m not sure how to work on it without appropriate skills .

Thank you for reading this. I appreciate your opinion.",3,2,24.248316508076257,GradSchool
What is the difference between course and thesis based MEng?,"I was going through the graduate programs of University of Calgary,Canada and I found my interest - which is Chemical Engineering.

However they have thesis based and course based MEng.

What is the difference? How will it affect me in the future? If i choose thesis based MEng,will I be in the disadvantage for industrial jobs?

Thank you :)",7,0,24.264126693261446,GradSchool
Does turning down a grad school acceptance offer hurt my chances of reapplying in a year or two?,"Timing right now is my worst enemy. I have been planning to apply to graduate school (I live in the US) for an Masters in Public Health, Epidemiology to start next fall (2020). My top choice school’s application is the first one due, which is in January. I know I need to be getting my letters of recommendation together and submitting my application.

However, recently, there have been conversations at my current job about a team of new positions opening up. It would involved a department move and a promotion, and is actually related to public health, so it would be great work experience for me. No one is sure when these new positions will officially be created, but I am extremely interested in applying for them. My guess would be within the next year.

So, grad school applications are due before I would probably hear about these new jobs, but the jobs will probably start before next fall. My question then is: would it hurt me to apply to grad school now, and if accepted to both a program and the new job, turn down the grad acceptance offer in order to continue working for a few years, then reapply to go back to school when I’m ready? Would schools be less willing to accept me after turning them down once?",6,16,24.411591971039222,GradSchool
Finally ready to go back!,"Woah boy, it has been a rough couple years.

While falling into a state of deep depression, I started did a M.Sc under the supervision of a good PI and successfully finished a little more than a year ago.  Unfortunately, my life fell apart as I started drinking a lot to cope with what I learned was crippling OCD and anxiety, and this was even before I moved on to do a PhD with a new supervisor who was an absolute dictator (to his credit, I am much more rigorous and disciplined because of him though).  

Well, I attempted suicide in February and left my PhD about a month and half later.  It was a rough old slog and I almost didn't make it through, but therapy and pro-active measures have helped me reclaim my lust for life and learning about the world.  I reached out to my old M.Sc supervisor and he told me he would like to have me come and do a PhD with him.  I can't wait!

I will be meeting with him in the coming week to go over the project, and I'll probably start in the winter! Heck yah!

Also, if you are struggling with mental health, don't do what I did and wait until you are thinking about suicide constantly.  A supervisor who is a dictator is not worth it.",5,34,24.494010952520703,GradSchool
What kind of master’s programs should I look into if I want to do PsyD/DClinPsy in the future?,"I graduated with bachelors in biology and psychology. I want to do PsyD and I was wondering what kind of master’s should I do so that I can get a job in the field? My plan is to get a master’s, work in the field for a year, then enroll in PsyD. There are so many programs for master’s in psychology such as developmental psych, behavioural analysis, experimental psych, etc. and I am not sure which one to pick.",8,0,24.827749378446626,GradSchool
Is getting a PsyD/DClinPsy worth it?,I am considering doing PsyD since I want to practice as a therapist and also teach if possible. I was wondering if doing a PsyD is worth it? I’m looking at schools in uk and Australia. I also want the mobility to be able to practice and teach in America with a British or Australian PsyD degree.,10,0,24.830492434002185,GradSchool
I need to find a part-time job and I’m stressed out!!!,"I moved back home this year after finishing undergrad since my grad school wasn’t super far away. But the commute sucked and I hated it, also it gets stressful being at home. I’m finally moving out but now I need to find a part-time job soon. The job hunt has been super stressful since RA, GRA, TA and SA positions go so fast. I want to do something grad school related now. How do I not get stressed out and dejected by rejection and keep pushing through, while I’m still a full-time student?",2,2,24.892193822891073,GradSchool
"I submitted a fellowship proposal today that I have no chance of winning, and I feel great!",I finished my application for a fellowship today that is super competitive and I have no chance of winning. But writing up my research statement was an amazing exercise in seeing how far I've come in my program and reminding myself of my long term goals. I'm pumped up and feel like I want to write my next three papers all at once now!,12,282,24.90141835992811,GradSchool
Undergraduate student looking for advice on CS/engineering masters programs,"Hi all! I'm currently a student at the University of Texas at Austin studying mathematics with a certificates in computer science and statistics, but I really want to attend graduate school for a computer science or mechanical/industrial engineering masters and hopefully enter the data science/software industry after graduation.

The problems I've been having so far are that I do not have any internship experience, and I will be graduating in either December 2020 or May 2021. I hope to get some research experience through the math department and learn some more programming in the my free time so that I can work on some projects. I also feel like I have a mediocre GPA (3.35) and tried to transfer into the engineering/CS departments at UT but got rejected, so I'm now trying to go to graduate school for these fields. I'm hoping to raise this GPA to a 3.5+ in my remaining semesters here, but I think it will be quite hard since I have only math/computing/statistics classes to take (currently taking two math/two stats classes right now) and those classes take up a lot of time.

So, the advice I'm looking for is should I focus more on classes and get letters of rec for masters programs or projects/research? I'm trying my best to focus on more applied math/stats classes, but my lack of experience is hurting me. Also, am I out of luck for getting into some good/decent graduate programs with some funding? What is realistic for me? Any advice would be appreciated!",0,0,24.92496002659478,GradSchool
Possibility of leaving Graduate Assistantship for a better one?,"So I've just started my first year as an MA student and my assistantship is in another department (I'm a history MA and my assistantship is with a department that teaches reading skills to first-year undergrads who aren't yet reading at a college level). When I tell other history people what my assistantship is, it's always met with ""Well you should be able to get a better one next semester."" The problem is, my contract is two semesters- through April.

I was just told by my program director that one's coming open next semester in Oral History (my field!), but my contract won't be up by then. Am I out of luck here, or is it typically possible to leave one department for another and break the first contract? I've been told that can happen if it's moving people around in the same department, but I'm unsure when it comes to moving from one department to another.

Also, I recognize that bailing may leave my current employer in a tough spot, but my director said she'll start talking to people about it next week so it would give them plenty of notice. I just want a position that will actually give me experience in my field.",2,1,24.95050400807626,GradSchool
Should I do a postdoc if I want to go into industry?,"I'm currently applying to PhD programs. I had always assumed that a post-doc is basically required if you want a higher paying position, academia or in industry.

However I was reading various posts and I think my thinking is flawed.

So, if I want to work in industry and have no desire to work in academia, is a post-doc worthwhile/necessary in order for me to get higher paid positions in the future?'

Edit: Looking at molecular biology/genetics programs.

Thanks all!",5,6,24.971510952520703,GradSchool
Little research experience but want a PhD,"Hi all. I don’t have very much research experience but am interested in eventually pursuing a PhD after completing my BS in mechanical engineering. Would first going for an MS make me more competitive for PhD programs, or does an MS not necessarily help with PhD admissions?",4,1,24.986395211779964,GradSchool
Review of statement of purpose?,"I'm looking for someone to give feedback on my statement of purpose (or let me know other free resources.) Not a lot of folks around me have gone to grad school so I don't have people in my life to ask! 

I'm five years out of undergrad (journalism) moving to apply to MPH programs for Fall 2020. If anyone has any capacity to give a look at my statement (1400 words,) let me know and I could send over or post a link. 

thanks to anyone who has any capacity. love the reddit communties!",3,0,25.011348915483666,GradSchool
Letters of Recommendation,"I currently have two letters of recommendation from professors and one from my ROTC commander. I met with another professor today and he recommended adding another professor in place of my ROTC commander (for programs that only allow 3 letters). Thoughts?

I feel like my ROTC commander can talk about my non academic performance/leadership abilities.",4,2,25.02006419326144,GradSchool
Master’s in Health Administration/Management?,"Hey guys! I'm about to graduate with my Bachelor's in General Studies (with a concentration in Natural and Applied Sciences). I want to further my education into something more specific and was looking at a Master's in Health Administration (or alternatively, Healthcare Administration, Health Management, Healthcare Management, etc). Radiology technician and Nursing didn't work out for me, but I still want to work in healthcare. I like the idea of working ""behind the scenes"" in a hospital. If any of y'all have a master's degree in something similar, how did it pay off for you? What kind of jobs do you have and what's the pay like? Thanks in advance!",0,2,25.076997063631815,GradSchool
"Entering PhD next week, scared shitless","Title. Straight from undergrad. Very excited, but very nervous. Any tips for adjusting quickly?",11,16,25.078652156224408,GradSchool
Just had my first presentation in front of my thesis advisors and it went TERRIBLE. How do y'all manage your nerves?,"My ""presentation"" was just over a small chapter of an introductory textbook. I was just meant to show my advisors I understood the reading and show them what I learned. I have to do one every week.


I didn't even get through half of it before I broke down crying. Cried so much they both decided to end the presentation early. Cried more in the bathroom afterwards. My eyes hurt. They both make me extremely nervous and I suck at speaking in front of people, especially in front of experts on the subject. I'm scared they're going to realize I'm not as smart as they think I am and I'm terrified of making them regret taking me on as their student. 


This is my first semester as a grad student. I'm studying population dynamics. 


Please, I'd greatly appreciate any advice and/or anecdotes.",27,42,25.118304934002182,GradSchool
Has anyone failed and gotten into another program?,"I am just curious.  I've been looking it up on online forums and some people say that if you fail, you can restart and others are very adamant about it not being possible.",6,3,25.14563132289107,GradSchool
Quantum computing research?,"I have a bachelor's in mathematics, but I want to conduct research in quantum computing. Potentially grad school. What would be the best way to make the switch?",9,1,25.16943919326144,GradSchool
Reading paper for the 2nd time,"I hope I am not the only one. Sometimes when I go back to the paper I read, I uncovered more detail and things that really impact the way I do my experiments. This has always left a feeling of guilt that I failed to pay attention to details that I should have.....",11,23,25.252436878446627,GradSchool
I Proposed- and I didn’t die!,"I just wanted to thank everyone that read my last post and responded to help alleviate my anxiety. I proposed my dissertation yesterday afternoon and I didn’t fumble over my words or even get asked a question I couldn’t answer. These were two things I was really nervous about and so it felt really good to do a good job and actually recognize that I did a good job (sometimes this can be hard in grad school). 

So thank you kind Redditors!",11,132,25.282448452520704,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Celebrate your birthday?

* Complete an experiment successfully?

* Finish final exams for a summer course?

* Take your first vacation in years?

* Submit a paper?

* Learn how to write a good CV from a stellar mentor?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",34,4,25.295388267335515,GradSchool
Undergraduate in need of advice,"Hello everyone,

I am currently an dual enrollment high school junior/undergraduate freshman who wants to become a professor; the problem is that I have two disciplines I am very interested. But to start, a little bit about me. I started reading for enjoyment last year around this time after being inspired by John  Fish and have been reading nonfiction voraciously ever since. It is crazy, but I have read 222 books since last October, almost all nonfiction. I am absolutely at wonder with all the depth that exists out in the world, and would like to make my own contribution. 

The two subjects that interest me the most are epigenetics and early 1800s American intellectual history. I have been researching how to go to the best graduate school (for job placement) and have research lined up with a professor from each area. In epigenetics I am just now starting a project which researches the methylation of a gene and its effect in causing cells to become tumorigenic; in history I have an independent research “class” (for credit, but one-on-one with the professor) promised to me for this spring semester to research how new scientific ideas affected American intellectual thought in the early 1800s (these projects are usually only offered to juniors or seniors). The history professor said that I could start getting into the details with him next week.

So, here is the tough part: I have to choose which path to take. Genetics or American History? Opportunities abound each direction I look, but that makes my decision even more difficult. I have set myself up great for either way, but once I choose what path to take, it is full speed ahead. I’m looking for advice: where to go, what criteria to decide on, or any helpful words you have for an inspired student of learning.",1,0,25.368385952520704,GradSchool
Anxiety about whether I belong here (Master's),"Start of 2nd year (U.S.). Black and female with no work experience = unicorn/outcast. 

I feel dumber than everyone else admitted with me. There's a clique of Indian/African students who just seem to ""get it"". Like they're never confused about coursework, always get A's on exams, never fuck up even once. 

And they look down on me. They avoid me in classes, they don't sit with me or talk to me more than an occasional ""hello"" despite my best efforts to be friendly. I think they know I'm not worth their time because I'm not as good at the material as they are. 

While I have a 4.0, I've had to struggle for it. And it's not like I haven't screwed up exams- our professors just graded on a curve. I don't even know if I can keep my GPA this time around. I don't inherently get the material, but I try to meet with my professors and ask questions. (Plus I now have to balance schoolwork with a part-time internship and developing my thesis.)

I had to drop a course last semester, and it seemed like everyone knew about it by the end of the day. I felt so embarrassed, but my quiz scores were so much lower than everyone else's every single week, and I was going mental. I broke down and cried in the middle of class once, but I was sitting alone, so it's not like anyone noticed. (Have to retake it next Spring. Fuck me.)

I guess the bottom line is, I feel so alone and sometimes I wonder what I'm even doing here. I don't know if I deserve any of this, and maybe I should give up my position to a student who really deserves it. I don't even know if I was just accepted as a ""diversity hire"" or something. 

TL;DR: Being alone in grad school makes me feel like an idiot. I feel like I can't do this, and it makes me want to scream.",17,10,25.409416045113293,GradSchool
Not sure I can do this," 

So I'm in my first semester as a physics PhD student but I'm not sure I'm cut out for this. I did great in undergrad (as I'm sure everyone here did). It was hard but I could keep up with it

I have pretty bad depression which has always been a hindrance, but I managed it.

Now, however, I'm barely on my third week of classes and the material is so far above undergrad (it started off decently past my undergrad level), the lectures are way over my head, and I spend every waking minute doing homework that I don't understand. I struggle to understand the problems, and can't no matter how hard I try without getting help from the other students or looking at online solutions. I barely manage to finish the work before it's due and I get the next assignment that takes up every minute of my life.

I have quite literally cried more often than I can count and can barely find the will to keep going. I knew it would be hard, but I thought I would at least feel like I'm learning and growing while it honestly seems like I'm just being crushed. I was wondering if you guys had any advice or if I'm even suited for grad school. I just feel so so far below where I should be.",4,5,25.43837437844663,GradSchool
Need help in picking a school!,"UK-

1. Warwick Business School 
2. University of Strathclyde 
3. University of Glasgow 

Ireland-

1. University College Dublin 
2. Trinity College Dublin

New Zealand- 

1. University  of Auckland 

Course: MSc. Marketing (or variations thereof) 

UK1 is my dream school with backups being UK2 and UK3 along with Ireland 1 and Ireland 2 and the backup of my backup being New Zealand 1.

 

I have already received an offer from university of Auckland and i need to accept it by 16th November 2019. only problem is that UK3 is the only school that i will be hearing back by then. other schools will take long....so what do i do? do i just play it safe and accept the offer from university of Auckland or try for the better ones?",11,0,25.53865215622441,GradSchool
Study abroad,"Hello!  As someone studying Psychology and considering doing grad school in the near future, I was wondering if studying abroad for a semester or year during grad school is a possibility.  I am considering doing a study abroad but am unsure if I will be able to, given as it is my senior year and I am preparing to graduate.  Hence why I am considering if I can have such options in my grad school year.  I am not sure I want to do entire programs abroad, so I am wondering if just one year or one semester is a possibility.",2,1,25.74940447103922,GradSchool
It feeks like every other grad student is a multilingual globe-trotting polymath,"...and here I am, just a farm boy who grew up liking bugs more than tractors. 

How are all y'all pulled straight out of summer blockbuster scripts? It's amazing.

Edit:  you don't know how much these comments mean. And NOT ONE person left a snarky comment about my fat-fingered title mishap. Y'all are wonderful.",64,420,25.8180734525207,GradSchool
"GRE scores not great, but I really don't want to take it again.","Hi guys! I'm a senior art history student who is about to start applying to graduate programs. I took the GRE and didn't do well. At all. 148 verbal and 3.0 analytical (my programs don't care about the math). I have a lot on my resume though: a great gpa, study abroad, paper presentations at major national conferences, and an internship along with wonderful recommenders. Should I worry about the GRE and retake it, or just apply to my schools?",7,0,25.857610489557736,GradSchool
Media/Publicity on CV,"Note: This is also posted on Ask academia. I’m sorry, I don’t know how to cross post. 

Hello,

Is it appropriate to include media stories about ones research? Especially, those that involve interviews?

I presented at a conference which got picked up by a government news letter, then the local paper. That in turn got picked up by a bigger source. Now, I'll be doing a live interview on national (not American) radio soon.

Is it appropriate to include any of the above on my CV. I don't think it adds anything to the scientific rigour of my work but maybe it will help with scholarship and grant applications? I'm currently, a 1st year PhD student. Transferred directly from an MSc in the same lab. My PI is very generously taking very little to no credit.

Thank you.",2,2,25.903281785854038,GradSchool
Have 6 weeks to write my masters thesis of 15000 words . Is it possible . I have done the research just have to write .,,10,7,25.91536511918737,GradSchool
"Urban Design/Planning - Applying next year, How can I become more competitive/is this a good plan?","First and foremost, I do not have an architecture degree. My current experience includes a Business Degree/Sustainability Minor from 4 years ago, 4 years of experience in the solar industry (solar system design/operations), and a small internship for marketing at an urban planning organization just after University. My best bet seems to go for an Urban Planning program and concentrate in Urban Design.

I've joined a couple urban planning related organizations, got a LEED certification (I realize that LEED is just the beginning of a big conversation in planning but that's a different discussion), and am now taking a certificate course about city planning (Designing Cities from UPenn). I'm hoping that despite a 3.5 GPA from Undergraduate, not working in the industry directly, being 4 years out of school, and having what will likely be an average GRE score that I can still hone a competitive application.

The Plan:

The current plan is to wait 1 more year, see if I can push my GRE scores/resume in order to apply for some of the more competitive graduate planning programs.

I'm eyeing a few online certificate classes that are directly related to urban design including one from MIT Media Lab, and potentially a small certificate course of a few classes. Will having a smattering of online course certificates from IVY Leagues/ other universities in my resume look like I'm just packing on the pounds for IVYs that I apply to?

I intend on joining a few more design competitions in the next 6 months to improve my portfolio and work on a few architecture-related VR projects with a friend. While I would love to transition into the architecture/planning industry before applying, I realize my skillset is very solar focused so I'm trying to find other ways to look active outside of work.

Where I plan to apply:

The most competitive programs I've been eyeing include: Berkeley's MCP - Environmental Planning and Healthy Cities, UPenn's MCP with an Urban Design or Environmental Concentration, and Harvard's Master's of Design: Energy and Environment

I will apply for a few back-ups but I want to put my best foot forward for the more competitive programs.

Not sure if there's a place where I can read others' stories for those who got into prestigious urban design/planning programs or if my ""story"" sounds convincing enough. Feel free to let me know of creative ways to improve my chances, thank you in advance!",1,1,26.02705493400218,GradSchool
Being railroaded by a territorial peer-reviewer *Update*,"This is an update from the post I made a couple days ago liked here:  


[https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d5h753/being\_railroaded\_by\_a\_territorial\_peerreviewer/](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d5h753/being_railroaded_by_a_territorial_peerreviewer/)  


I got some good news today about this. The journal needs two reviewer recommendations to proceed with publication, so I still have some waiting to do, but the editor decided to find another reviewer! Here's hoping this next one won't be a jackass. Thanks everyone for the support and advice, I really appreciate this community.",11,122,26.13055030437255,GradSchool
Is it okay to start a PhD one or even two years after finishing undergrad? How will the application be considered the longer I wait? (Biology+Mechanical engg dual major),"I just graduated in July this year, and I'm pretty confused whether to apply for a PhD this year or the next. I thought I made up my mind for the former - I'm in the middle of my GRE prep and have spoken to my  references for LORs too- but realize that I'm still  unsure. 

I have an average 7.6 GPA (on 10) but I spent this last year of undergrad doing relevant research in a couple of labs at Harvard Medical School. I was supposed to return in Sept as a Research Associate in the same lab to continue my work but my visa appication is stuck in paperwork - I'll probably start in November. My original plan was to apply this year and start my PhD after having worked as an RA for a year.

Now I feel like I need help weighing the costs of starting my PhD after having waited for one vs two years. Will fresher candidates be preferred? 

Thanks for reading!",12,4,26.169369748816997,GradSchool
Graduate School Advice,"Hello everyone!

I am currently a senior at a University, & I have plans to go to graduate school in Fall of 2020. Nobody else in my family has attended graduate school, & I don't really know that many people that attended it either. I have a couple questions about graduate school & the process of it all

1) When do you start applying to grad school? I understand some or most schools require you to take the GRE, when would be the time to start studying & taking the GRE in order to attend graduate school by Fall 2020?

2) Is there a specific GPA requirement? I only have a 2.8 GPA right now :(. Will that low of a GPA affect me? Are there schools I can get into with a 2.8?

3) I have to get a job & pay for graduate school on my own. How tough is it to balance work & graduate school?

4) How many schools should I apply to?

5) Are there universities that offer online only programs? For the people that are in those, are those challenging?

6) If I'm applying to a master's program thats 2 years, can I stretch it out & complete it in 3 years?

7) Any other advice that I didn't ask in a question is greatly appreciated

Thank you!",4,1,26.192089656224404,GradSchool
NSF GRFP Personal Statement,"Does anyone know how far back is ""too far back"" when mentioning your start in research? Is it okay if I were to write about an event from elementary school, or should I start with university-level research?",3,1,26.20346697103922,GradSchool
Doing good work as an undergrad?,"Hi, so I know that there's a lot of advice on this sub already about grad school, but I'm wondering if someone's been in my situation specifically. 

I'm an undergrad in 3rd year, and I've been doing research part-time for a while now. I've had two pubs as first author so far, and 2 more on the way. I love my work, but I feel like it conflicts a lot with class and my social life. At the same time, I'm not sure what is expected of me, and it's actually been getting worse as I prepare more publications and get more responsibility. I just keep feeling like I'm making stupid mistakes that a grad student wouldn't make, and that there are people that could easily take my place. Because I'm in computer science and experiments are easy to implement solo, I'm the sole author besides my PI most of the time. But that means that there's no one checking my work, and I just feel as if I might be committing subtle bugs (after all, if I write class assignments that have bugs, why not research?) that I don't notice on my own. 

On top of this, I don't have much time to work on research because of a heavy courseload. I'm not sure to what extent to pursue classes and to what extent to pursue research. The reason I want to take the courses in the first place is to be more qualified for research though, since before I would just learn things as I went along in an unsystematic way. 

So if I expend less effort in school, I'll continue to feel unqualified for the research I'm already doing, but if I expend more effort in school I'll have less time to actually prepare publications, which I'm told is the most important part of grad school applications. Sorry for rambling on, but if you've read this far, I'm just wondering if you have any tips for balancing school and research (social life would be great too, if there's time) and plowing ahead with projects even if you're not entirely sure what you're doing and have to learn it on the fly. 

Thanks.",7,0,26.21409197103922,GradSchool
To leave or not to leave?,"I'm a 3rd year PhD in Linguistics and dying inside. I don't know how much longer I'm going to make it in this program, nor what to do were I to leave.

I'm taking 3 classes and teaching 2 sections of a freshman writing course, which tends to keep me pretty busy, although overarching stress from fighting with my advisor pretty much nonstop for two years has pushed me into procrastinating and 24/7 anxiety. He does not support my research agenda and wants me to pursue something closer to what he does; I have agreed to do that for the dissertation with the caveat that I continue to pursue my own agenda as a side project, as that is where I want my career to go. He was okay with this the first year but has since backtracked on that support, trying to force me out of my area of interest altogether. Earlier this month I applied for a Fulbright award to pursue this research (against his wishes) and I am waiting to hear back on that. I was also jointly pursuing a MA in Anthropology, and I was informed today by the new graduate coordinator that the advice I'd received from the head of the department was wrong, and that it would take more time than anticipated to complete it, which immediately makes me want to just master out in Linguistics and drop Anthro altogether despite the fact that I love it and use anthropological methods heavily in my personal research.

I have stopped going to therapy because my therapist STRONGLY encourages me to stay in graduate school and hearing that from her always makes me cry and feel trapped (tearing up just remembering it). I want to leave. I want to be free from all this stress. I want to stop crying in my car every day (or in my office, as I'm doing now) wishing I were anywhere else. I see my research with my advisor (as he wants it to be) going nowhere I want to be, but I'm caught up in a web of ""what ifs"" and feel broken by the (well-intended) advice of my peers to just do the bare minimum and get out.

Please help me. I feel like a failure no matter what.",28,35,26.225828082150333,GradSchool
"If I started making youtube videos about spirituality , how badly do you think it would effect my scientific career?","If I started making youtube videos about spirituality , how badly do you think it would effect my scientific career?",30,6,26.327795674742923,GradSchool
Advice for a junior undergrad?,"I’m currently a junior undergrad. While it seems like I have plenty of time to figure out grad school, I know I don’t. I’ve started to look for professors at universities all over the country but I’m not entirely sure what I want to do in my field (marine science). I’m already in a lab and will be until I graduate, so I know that I love research and that I want to continue. But taking classes and putting 20 hours in the lab is a lot and I feel my mental health degrading already. 

Therefore I’m curious as to what kind of advice would you give your young self before even applying to grad schools? Would you take a gap year? How early would you start studying for the GRE? Would you go straight to a PhD? Only get a masters? Would you shift your field of study completely? Etc.

I’m trying to plan the next 2 years of my life so that it all doesn’t hit me like a brick wall. I know too many people who started looking into their future “late” and now they’re working a minimum wage customer service job because they don’t know what else to do. 

Any advice is helpful advice",5,2,26.36501789696515,GradSchool
Math Question,"Hello guys. I will study ""natural building stones and gem stones"" as master's degree. My math isn't good enough. I don't know differential equations at all. And now I have to pick one of these lessons. Which one is easier?

1. Applied Mathematics
2. Mathematical Methods
3. Numerical and Approximate Methods
4. Methods of Applied Mathematics

Thank you already :)",4,0,26.378015582150333,GradSchool
[Mendeley] Removing DOI/URL from the Chicago Manual of Style author-date style,"People have asked about Mendel and citation software in general here before, so I decided to post this here. Chicago Manual of Style author-date is exactly the style I want, except for the DOIs/URLs included. I checked this [official guide](https://www.mendeley.com/guides/csl-editor/05-example-removing-doi) and [this other guide](https://www.researchgate.net/post/Anyone_knows_how_to_not_show_DOI_in_Mendeley_DESKTOP_that_they_dont_show_up_in_the_bibliography_with_app_style) on how to remove them by creating my own style based on CMoSAD.

However, as soon as I try to apply the style, Word 2016 (on Windows 10) just freezes. It doesn't even give me the ""no responding"" message, it fully freezes up. Mendeley also become unusable, and I have to kill both with the task manager.

I'm not sure what I'm doing wrong; all I did was remove the DOI Conditional and save the style. I know that Mendeley has fallen out of favour because it's no longer open. I'm probably going to abandon it soon, but I'm stuck with it for this project.",2,0,26.51766835992811,GradSchool
how normal are my nerves??,"Okay so I’m 5 weeks into my grad program.  Some of my classes I’m fairly comfortable with... especially the class days where we work with the smaller cohort of students and there’s about 13 of us.  It’s definitely more intimate, personal... less nerve racking maybe because we’ve all gotten pretty personal with one another.  This is a Masters in counseling program btw.

However... every time I’m in my other class where both cohorts meet I get these extreme nerves that come on whenever it’s my turn to talk, or if I’m thinking about talking.  The nerves kind of start at my chest.  I literally feel my heart beating out of my check, and it gets faster... my face gets all warm feeling and I feel like I’m about to explode.  When the nerves aren’t so bad I’ll talk but then I can literally hear my voice shaking, and I feel like everyone can tell I’m nervous.  I also have a hard time articulating what I’m trying to say to them... then later in the car I re-say to myself out loud in the car what I wanted to say and I say shit that I wish I could have said cause it sounded way better when I was by myself! Haha ugh! I hate my nerves",2,3,26.711117434002183,GradSchool
How fast (days) can you write 100 pages?,,8,1,26.73560817474292,GradSchool
Anyone Familiar with Sigma Xi?,"Hi all, 

I just got an invitation to Sigma Xi. After some googling it seems like a pretty legit group. Does anyone have any experience with them? How prominent is it joining this group? What are the obligations? I'm an international studying in the US so I really don't know much about these honor societies and all the ins and outs. 

Thanks!",2,2,26.752668359928112,GradSchool
How embarrassed are you when mistakes are made during TA,"I made mistakes consecutively during my first two TA sessions. The first one I got the definition wrong (and subsequently calculation wrong) in a problem. The second one I got the nomenclature wrong despite solving the problem correctly. And I explained an experimental procedure irrelevant to my research somewhat inaccurately. 

I could attribute some reasons to being unprepared and just incredibly busy with my research on the day of TA. But i still felt quite embarrassed about those ""rookie"" mistakes despite learning from it. Students seem to take it rather diplomatically. I actually praised them for pointing out the mistakes (another sign that they are paying extra attention !).

Have you had episodes like these ? I started doubting my own ability today.",2,2,26.767899841409587,GradSchool
I am terrified on grad school,"I’m currently in my senior year of undergrad. I have been contemplating going to grad school for environmental science/GIS/geoenvironmental studies. My B.S. is in Environmental Biology. All these posts on this sub terrify me. I’m so afraid I won’t be able to handle the work or deal with the stress. I have already reached out to a few schools and talked to professors there. I just don’t know if it will be worth it. Any advice would be appreciated.

Edit: Typo in title of*",4,0,26.821904471039222,GradSchool
University of Pittsburgh grad students will get a new union election due to unfair labor practices by the university,,0,34,26.83350169326144,GradSchool
What's the biggest screw up happened that you thought you'd get fired but your advisor forgave you?,,1,12,26.83698548955774,GradSchool
How to ask professor to get coffee with you at a conference?,"Hi all,

I'm attending a conference in around a month or so, and noticed that a professor whose lab I'll be applying to will actually be at the conference.

1. Is it acceptable to ask them to get coffee with me? Is this even a good idea?
2. How soon/close to the event should I ask?
3. What should I say in the email? Should I be talking about their research in the email?

Thanks everyone!",5,3,26.87156882289107,GradSchool
Being taxed on tuition waiver,"Hey folks.

Is anyone else being taxed on their tuition waiver? I get 1000 a month and 300 of that goes to taxes because they also tax the tuition waiver. So we get taxed like we’re making 2000 instead of 1000. They spread it out so it doesn’t hit all at once, but it’s insane. I remember seeing this in the news that they were considering taxing waivers like income and that it didn’t pass, so I was pretty upset when my first paycheck came in and it was far less than what I budgeted for. 300 dollars coming out of 1000 is a big deal for me and I didn’t know to prepare for it.",7,5,26.92089752659478,GradSchool
"Those who finished a PhD, how was your mental health in months leading to the submission? How did you cope with the stress?",,9,6,26.93954335992811,GradSchool
Update: So I made an ass of myself to my graduate advisor,"Update to [https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d5l7pn/so\_i\_made\_an\_ass\_of\_myself\_to\_my\_graduate\_advisor/](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d5l7pn/so_i_made_an_ass_of_myself_to_my_graduate_advisor/)

I hope this isn't violating rule 9

First of all thank you to those who commented with support, encouragement, and advice. It really helped

I talked to my advisor in person, and now I feel even more like an idiot, albeit in a more positive sense. Basically the conversation had the following points

* My code was actually working correctly, it turns out the program we were using to compare was actually performing incorrectly. This was confirmed by comparing to 2 other exact solutions that matched my own.
* He considers my core thesis work was done, with this current project being an extra that will be a bonus to the end product
* To let him know about this stuff, because it was his job to help his students succeed

So basically, I felt like quitting and/or driving into a tree over my own imaginary perceived failure. So my lesson for the day is to not be an overly paranoid moron.",7,77,26.941059563631814,GradSchool
About a month in now and I love it!,"Started my PhD last month and honestly it’s been awesome. My first rotation lab is doing really interesting research and I’m getting along with everyone really well. My small lit review has really helped me understand what’s going on and I’ve been fairly successful with the various techniques I’ve been learning. 

My cohort is also great! Everyone is really nice, we click pretty well, and it’s awesome to be surrounded by people who like science as much as I do! 

My program is also amazing. The faculty are all really supportive and there are a lot of collaborations between labs. The whole environment just feels really warm and welcoming. 

I know this sub is pretty negative a lot, but I’m really hoping that this first month is reflective of what the next 5-7 years is going to be like because right now I’m absolutely loving it.",13,65,26.944994748817,GradSchool
Why grad school feels bad and a few things that have worked for me to counteract the academic madness,"This was something I posted as a comment in a different sub. Helping others through their stress, explaining the problems of grad school, and how to overcome them make me feel better about the constant grind. Hope it helps someone else too!

Grad school, at least for STEM fields, is particularly brutal due to the lack of a measuring stick. You might be Killin it. It might be Killin you. There's no way to tell bc once you're done with course work, the only thing to mark success is your project which is a fucking nightmare to use as a measuring stick. The alternative is constant comparisons to others which will completely undermine your own development.

Your project might be super difficult, cutting edge, but require a ton of work. Someone else's project might be cutting edge but already wrapping up. So despite working your ass off, you only get 1 publication whereas they *seem* to get 6. And while you're in the thick of it, those two numbers are all you can see. You might hate the constant comparison within your mind but you cant escape it when nothing seems to be working. So you wake up every morning, go to lab, fail most days, and constantly wonder why your project isn't working;

""I'm fucking up."" ""This is my fault."" ""If they were in charge it would be finished by now."" ""I probably need to relax and then I'd have a fresh mind to tackle this."" ""I should definitely work more, a real hard 24 hour push of lab work would get this project done."" ""'I'm just being a baby and need to get the work done."" ""Maybe I need a break like my SO tells me."" ""Fuck I'm lazy, I bet my boss hates me bc I'm never here""-your inner monologue as you hit hour 10 on a Friday

Meanwhile, you might actually be 90% done with your research. The rxn tomorrow might actually work and suddenly that wall is gone and everything pushes forward to the end. You won't know it's the end, it'll just suddenly be. If there was a status bar to actually mark progress, grad school wouldn't be so hard bc you could rest easy knowing you arnt undermining your own efforts and that your hard work is paying off.

Some advice on how to be proactive and prevent the academic madness. These things have worked for me but I didnt get these things fully going until my third year.

1. Start counselling when you begin grad school. It really helps to have someone outside of your life to just bitch at without wondering if you just depressed them.
2. Keep a small notebook. Write down every accomplishment when you achieve it. Hell, write down anything that makes you happy. Sounds corny but at one point you are gonna ask yourself ""what have I ever accomplished?""
3. A) Have a physical hobby of some sort. Run, lift, bike, do something physical with your body to keep your hormones level. B) Have a hobby completely separate from grad school. You probably can't get this until after your exams but it's a necessity after year 2. Do something with your friends that you all enjoy that isn't work or alcohol related. My group goes rock climbing 2-3 times a week.
4. Keep the end goal in mind. The end goal is to get a PhD. Publications would be nice, fellowships would be nice, and awards would be nice. Getting the D is the real goal though.

And keep in mind, every year comes with its own set of problems. There is not a single year that is most challenging, they all come with a hurdle. With each year you dive deeper into the shit, it gets murky there and easy to forget who, what, when, where, and why you are there. Do everything you can to keep focus on those W's.",40,252,27.004531785854034,GradSchool
"Grad students, how do you decorate your desk?","I recently got a desk in my lab and it's looking pretty bare. 

I'm curious what sorts of things do others keep at their desk? There aren't any windows in mine, so a plant would probably be a bad idea.",19,9,27.022078082150333,GradSchool
Should I drop out of grad school based on a gut feeling?,"I (22F) am in my 1st semester of a teaching (7-12 English) graduate program. I was an English major/education minor. I've always loved editing and writing. But I hated my education classes. I decided to go into teaching because I didn't know what else to do. Fast forward...

I enjoyed my hands-on fieldwork at two writing camps this summer but I understand that's very different from the actual classroom. I've visited classes since and have counted down the minutes. Today I cried on my way to my classroom visit because I feel trapped in this program. I cried during it because I didn't feel right. Before I had to present the bell rang. And then I thought, as I left, ""This isn't for me. This is a waste of time and money"" ... when I looked up, I saw ""111"" twice on a room, and usually that number (to me) symbolizes being on the right path/train of thought.

I can drop out by tomorrow and apply to masters programs elsewhere on account of mental health reasons (which is a part of this, too). But I have a lease in the town I go to school so I'd be working a menial job for a year. Should I drop out?

TLDR; 1st semester in grad school and my gut feeling is/has been telling me not to be a teacher but I have a lease here, and can drop out by tomorrow with a potential full refund, should I do it?",11,16,27.023223915483666,GradSchool
How do you study all day long without feeling exhausted?,"During exams I have to study alone until evening; I take breaks and have a 2-hours lunch, but in the evening I feel a bit dizzy. How do you treat yourself in these cases? :)",2,4,27.12294613770589,GradSchool
*Rant* The fluctuating standards for students,"I had a meeting with my mentor over my prospectus (what variables I will examine and procedures). My mentor is pushing me which is great, however, I have seen lab mates graduate with variables that are ""simple (mentors words)"" compared to what I want to look at. Additionally what I am looking at is not as researched as extensively as the last 3 to graduate. It feels that I am trying to ""break new ground"" and simultaneously examine it under the impression that there has been 10+ years with 100s of papers written on the top. 

It feels that I am being pushed more then other students. I try to remain calm and not compare myself to their work. Just hard to justify my mentors words when they have shown acceptance of an ""simple"" variables previously. 

Thanks for coming to my TED talk.",13,8,27.133270211779962,GradSchool
What are questions you wish you could have asked your professor of interest/PI or other grad students in the lab prior to applying to a grad program or accepting an admission?,What are some questions that came up for you throughout the admissions/acceptance process as well as questions that have come up for you going through your Masters or PhD that you wish you would have asked about prior to applying or getting into a particular program? So much of grad program knowledge just seems to come with experiencing things but what are aspects that looking back you could have asked someone but didn't?,6,3,27.135816508076257,GradSchool
ABD,Just passed my proposal defense today.  The next thing my committee expects from me is a first chapter in a couple of months.  This feels surreal.,8,72,27.16403410066885,GradSchool
Are there any major US/Canadian English lit. departments that are tolerant of doctoral dissertations on a single author?,"I’m based in Ireland, currently completing an MA, and and planning on applying for doctoral programs next year (well, actually reapplying, but that’s a whole other story). I’ve hitherto mostly been looking into programs and supervisors in the UK, which has basically the same sort of university system and culture as Ireland. However I’m also interested in trying for US programs this time round as well – I’m well aware of all the differences in how programs work on either side of the Atlantic, but my only slight issue is as regards the dissertation I’m looking to do.

Since you apply for a UK PhD with your diss. proposal, I’ve had the basic idea for what I’ve wanted to do for a while now, and my proposal is fairly strong AFAIK. In English departments here, it’s fairly common for a student to write their PhD dissertation entirely on a single writer - and my proposal for it is as well.

It’s my understanding that this isn’t particularly common in US or Canadian graduate programs, that the dissertation over there is usually on several writers or a broader theme, that dissertations on single authors are often viewed as less as employable, etc. (I gather that exceptions to this are often made for the likes of Shakespeare or Joyce, but neither of those are what I’m looking to cover – it’s Virginia Woolf, for what it’s worth.)

However my question is: are there any major grad programs that any of you know of in North America that are less strict about this and thus might allow me to pursue such a project? If not, how ought I to inquire about where might be interested (i.e. individual prospective supervisors, graduate admissions officers, graduate chairs, etc.)? Or should I just abandon the intention to do the project as originally planned if I try for a US grad. program?

tl;dr basically just the question in the title of the post.",1,1,27.218189193261445,GradSchool
I feel like a horrible TA,"I feel like a terrible TA, I’m basically a glorified paper grader but it seems that I can’t even get that right. I try to do the best that I can, but it seems like I’m constantly making errors in grade input, making exam keys and writing exams and other assignments. Part of the issue is I’m dyslexic and single letters and digits are hard, but I can’t blame it all on that. It feels even worse since my position as a level 2 TA isn’t supposed to be that hard, and I worry that I’m just disappointing my supervisor and students. Is there anything I can do to improve at my job? Or any advice that y’all can give me?",11,7,27.276279471039224,GradSchool
[Advice] First-year Master's student who feels stuck.,"Hi all,

I graduated college in June and am now starting my Master's degree in Poli Sci part-time, two classes per week. I work 20 hours a week at a coffee shop, and get paid 10 hours per week to be a TA for an undergrad course. These forms of income are best described as treading water.

I've tried breaking up my workload into bite-sized portions to do every day. I've tried building my schedule with gaps for meals, studying, breaks, etc. The problem is that I can't ever relax it seems. I dread doing my readings and subsequently can't spend my free time feeling free. 

I've tried doing my readings first and then letting myself have the rest of the day - but going for 4-6 hours at my job in the early mornings, having some lunch, and then diving into dense material just plain sucks. I'm completely dumbfounded at this point.

What strategies have you tried that may be unconventional? Working less hours is not an option for me unfortunately, and I want to continue my belief that I can study material that is my passion while still feeling like my life isnt commandeered by looming peer-reviewed journals that make me want to cry. Thanks for your help!",5,5,27.281487804372556,GradSchool
New student - how should i organize sources?,"I just started a masters program this semester.  I'm reading a lot of papers trying to acquire a knowledge base, but i see this quickly becoming a cluttered mess.  

I'm not taking notes, just reading.  Should i be taking notes and creating a like.. catalog of what I've read?

Or eventually will i just become familiar with all the major papers and authors?

Thoughts? Thanks.  it's a thesis",35,53,27.292228545113293,GradSchool
Conference abstract for beginning of degree,"Hey guys, I've just started my masters in the physical sciences, and I naively registered to present a poster at a conference at the end of the month. I'm putting together an abstract now, but needless to say, I do not yet have any data, so I was wondering if anyone has input on how to put together an abstract for a predominantly lit review poster. I've jacked the abstract formatting for GSA conferences, to give you an idea of what structure I am trying to adhere to.

\*\*my supervisor is a stickler for correct formatting i.e. formatting for physical sciences vs. social sciences (which makes perfect sense)

If anyone can help, I will bless you with good wishes for all of eternity.

**Abstract**

1. 1  sentence:  Summary statement to place your study in context, define the overall purpose or problem  being addressed. (got it)
2. 1 sentence:  Summary statement of your approach to the problem – mapping done, analyses performed, methods, etc. (got it)
3. 3‐5 sentences:  Meat of the abstract.  Results/Data. (halp)
4. 3‐5 sentences:   Interpretive discussion. (panic)
5. 1 sentence:  Summary statement listing the conclusions of your study. (Cortisol spike)
6. 1 sentence:  Statement relating your study back to the “big picture” – why does this work matter? How will it impact science and society? (got it)",1,1,27.325122063631813,GradSchool
Applying to Grad School with no GPA?,"Hey everyone, I'm interested in the idea of applying to grad school, but my undergad didn't record give us GPAs on our transcripts. I went to an art school and got a bfa in illustration, but I am looking into going to grad school for a completely different field, city/urban planning.

how do you apply without a gpa?",14,7,27.458281785854034,GradSchool
"For those of you that teach, what are your key points for success ?","As a PhD student I gave part of a course recently to master students. It wasn't my first time but still, it was challenging. It was a new section  that I had to build from scratch.  
My key takeaway is that you cannot know all about what you teach, and this is hard. So, be prepared to not have all the answers.  Also, practice.  Most of us don't have any hour to spare, but one run through can make you realize that some passages are not that fluid. 
Finally,  ask for honest feedback from the picky students. 

Anything else  ?",4,4,27.503733174742926,GradSchool
First major writing projects as a PhD student - how do you balance writing & bench work?,"Hello everyone! 

I have several big writing projects coming up in the next month or so (grant proposal, publication, review piece, etc.), and I'm struggling to find a balance between writing and lab work. Unfortunately my ""desk"" is directly in the lab, which is very distracting, and my PI wants us to be physically around all the time (not secluded in a cublicle or library where we are unavailable). 

With these circumstances, I'm struggling to make progress. My lab is very collaborative, with all 10 or so post-docs and grad students working together on various projects. Even if I do sit at my ""desk"" I'm interrupted by questions or requests every 15 minutes. 

With that in mind....

What ways do you guys balance benchwork and writing time? 

Or, better yet, any recommendations on how to politely set boundaries with lab mates when your desk is physically in the lab? 

Thanks!",1,1,27.532865119187367,GradSchool
Submitting 4 year old GRE Scores?,"I took the GRE in 2015 and graduated 2016. I got 158 verbal, 160 quant, 3.5 writing. I decided to work and not jump right into grad school, but I'm wondering if professors/schools will care about how old my score is when applying for microbiology PhD programs. I can probably do better on writing if I redo it, but risk a lower verbal and quant as I don't have a ton of time to study for an exam.

Thoughts? Does the score being that old matter?",5,3,27.766811878446624,GradSchool
Can I copy paste redundant information between documents for an NIH fellowship,"IDK where to ask this so please point me to a more appropriate forum if need be.

I'm applying to my first NIH fellowship. There's a lot of redundancy between the components. For example my biosketch and my background + training plans want a detailed description of my research experience. Do these text have to be different? Can I copy paste this info between them? There is no indicator that this is a problem that I can find in the fellowship instructions. There are lot of components like this... like why I chose the institution and also facilities and resources.... Ostensibly the facilities and resources are why I chose the institution.",2,1,27.769705396965147,GradSchool
Im scared for grad school,"Im 23 and I'm starting to study for the GRE and secure people to write me letters of recommendation. I feel like im at a time in my life that is so weird... 

I'm going to have to move away from my home town, likely across the country for the grad school programs I want no matter what, they aren't offered here. My boyfriend and I have been together for 7 years and he will come with me. 

I'm scared to have to depend on loans for living expenses. Im scared to plan the entire logistics of moving my whole life a long distance, including two pets. Im soo afraid to be away from my best friend. I'm afraid my boyfriend will be lonely without his friends.

Am I crazy or does everyone feel ridiculously unprepared?",7,2,27.778015582150335,GradSchool
Masters in Finance after bachelor in finance,Hi people of reddit. At the moment I have a bachelor degree in finance and I plan to take CFA lvl 1 next spring. So I think at some point in my life I might need to do master ( hopefully not but who knows). Is it crazy to pursue masters in finance if you already have bachelor in finance?,0,1,27.779103545113294,GradSchool
Your tips on recovering from the dissertation burnout,"Hi fellow grad students. I'm a last year PhD student working on editing my dissertation. Right now, my dissertation feels like a husband of 10 years that I know too well and am  comfortable just with the way he is. I don't feel like looking into him and pushing for his betterment. 

Have you been there? How do you motivate yourself to treat the dissertation like a new BF, and recover the passion to work on it?",2,5,27.819068822891072,GradSchool
classifying state residency when you have moved around so much?,"My ""permanent residence"" is in New York State- car registration, license, but haven't paid taxes or lived there in several years. I finished a master's program in Boston last December- moved to Austin to work for a few months and now in Atlanta. I ask because I am in an accelerated MSN program at an incredibly expensive college and I am just trying to finish the BSN portion and see where I can apply elsewhere. Specifically, I am in the Family Nurse Pracititoner track but I knew from the beginning I have wanted to do Psych. I was deadset on going straight through, but I am thinking that these kinds of programs are not beneficial for inexperienced nurses and want to take a year in between to gain experience. I really like Atlanta so I was looking at GSU's program, but there aren't many other options. As much as I really, REALLY do not want to go back to NY, I just can't stomach the thought of continuing to pay exorbitant amounts of money and not even be prepared or able to get a decent paying NP job after being hundreds of thousands in debt.'",1,2,27.911950767335515,GradSchool
Anyone else feel their advisor is taking advantage of them?,"I'm just beginning my 6th year in a pharmacology program, and I finally feel like I have contributed significantly enough in my lab to think about graduation.

My issue is that I need to get my first project published (manuscript is written--in the process of a few final edits before the next submission). My advisor says she really wants to get this paper published and about once a month actually asks how it is going, but the rest of the time she is constantly giving me side projects to do that take away time that could be spent on this manuscript or my other primary project. These side projects are always pitched as ""temporary"" or ""time-sensitive"" so that I am convinced into helping her before I continue plugging away on the things that will actually go into my thesis. 

I'm struggling with how to bring up my concerns without coming off as lazy (if I worked 60+ hour weeks, I could probably do it all, but I have obligations and hobbies!!). 

There are 4 less-senior members of the lab that could take on some of these projects, but as I am more experienced she often comes to me.",10,17,27.99360585992811,GradSchool
Do you think I should talk to my advisor about how much I don't have a life?,"Hello all, it is not my first time complaining here but I need to write this stuff regardless. I am working on fly genetics and the experimental part of it is performing the experiments and taking care of the flies. I have a team of undergrads and a new masters student has just started in the lab. (By the way I am just started my second year.) But they are no help at all for the most part. Recently, with classes, writing, babysitting (scheduling) undergrads it started to become unbearable. I am a GRA and I am working in the lab full time. But it is like I don't get what I deserve. We are suppose to have several papers once these experiments conclude. But I won't be the first name in all of these papers and I don't think I can handle that fact. I definitely need some kind of get away from all of this. On top of it all of the people in my lab has a social life apparently. Jealousy plus the tiredness is too much at this point. I know I sound like a whining child.

I am sure y'all experienced something similar. How did you find the strength to continue?",3,7,28.003478545113296,GradSchool
"3rd year PhD student wants me to call her ""Dr.""","I have been working in different labs over the summer and this semester I started working in a lab that isn't within my department. I have had very little interaction with graduate students outside of my department (Statistics). Additionally, I have only worked with Master level students since I started my graduate program. Now, I work with only PhD students. Typically, I refer to anyone with a PhD as 'Dr.' in the lab - every single one of them has asked I call them by their first name though. This 3rd year PhD student has told (not even asked) me to call her 'Dr.'. I frankly don't care and will call you whatever you want, but in this case I just think it is absurd for her to ask me to do this. I told her this and she has labeled me as an asshole. Tell me I am not crazy.",21,6,28.00500632289107,GradSchool
Is it better to pursue a master's (not highly ranked school) with a 8 month co-op or pursue a master's (highly ranked school) with a 12 week internship? (Canada).,"Hi. I am wanting to attend McGill, which offers a twelve week internship with a master's program. However, uWaterloo offers an 8 month co-op which sounds great. Yet, I have always wanted to attend McGill, because of the culture of Montreal, highly academic, and overall it's prestigious to an extent and internationally well known. I am not exactly sure what to do. I could always do a second master's at McGill down the road if possible. Would a twelve week internship standout on my CV? I have little professional work experience, unfortunately - which is why I want to pursue a Master's with a co-op or internship. Would organizations/government value a degree from McGill more because of the name?",2,0,28.018571137705884,GradSchool
"If you could have given your past self any advice before starting your first year as a graduate, what would it be?","I'm just curious about what input you all would have as a community on this. I'm hosting an orientation for our (biology) department's new incoming graduate students later in the week, and am planning on doing a grad student to grad student panel where they can ask questions, and I can offer them any advice for getting started. If it's one thing I've learned though, it's that everyone's individual experience is wholly different when it comes to entering graduate school, picking/ dealing with an advisor, meeting deadlines, etc. I'd like to get them all started off as strong as prepared as possible, but I feel that my personal advice won't encompass all of the trials and tribulations of grad school, so I'd love to hear your thoughts!",3,1,28.058744748817,GradSchool
Search for Agriculture / Computer Science PostGrad,"Hello everyone,

I'm searching for a postgraduate degree in Europe combining compsci and agriculture. Does anyone know any?

Thanks in advance!",0,0,28.066696137705886,GradSchool
What do y'all do for side money?,I'm sure I'm not the only grad student making enough to break even most months. Do any of you have any simple tricks for some side cash. I know a lot of people tutor but any other ideas?,30,22,28.085955396965144,GradSchool
Two years before a PhD,"Looking back, what would you be doing if you knew you had about two years? Besides GRE and other prep stuff, what are some wise things to do in order to prepare for a PhD? In my area, academic publishing means a lot, so I am planning to write an article or two. What else may one be doing?",13,7,28.096302619187366,GradSchool
Asking for a letter of reccomendation from an undergraduate professor while in grad school.,"Hello All!

I am starting my third year of my Math PhDand there is a summer program that I want to apply to that requires two letters of recommendation. I managed to secure one letter from a Professor that I believe will write me something decent.

When I asked my advisor on the other hand, he said, ""I am willing to write you one, but it would probably be better to find someone who knows you very well. Better than I do.""

So with that in mind, will getting an LOR from an undergraduate Professor look really bad coming from a grad student?",3,2,28.101522526594778,GradSchool
Applying for ChemEng Grad School Advice Requested,"Obligatory Stats: 168Q, 160V, 4.5AW 3.8 GPA (double-majoring in chemistry and chemical engineering) at a top 10 university in chemical engineering (and top 25 in chemistry) and looking to apply for (ideally) a PhD in ChemEng, but would be okay with Master's

I have had one summer research position (summer 2018) in a department outside of my major and an industrial internship (summer 2018) at a small company.  Those three months in the summer of 2018 are my only research experience.  I had to have a job to pay bills due to my financial stress and was not able to hold a volunteer research position.  My three recommenders are a close faculty member in chemical engineering, a well-known professor in chemical engineering and the advisor of my club, and my research advisor for my internship.  I'm concerned now because this is prime hiring season and I don't know if I stand a chance of getting into grad school and should just take a job right out of undergrad.

My questions are:

Do I stand a chance of getting admitted? (Should I only apply for Master's?)

Could I mitigate my lack of research experience in my SOP by mentioning financial difficulties while highlighting leadership (president of our chapter of the American Chemical Society my junior year) and working while maintaining a high GPA?

Should I just put a pause on grad school for now and search for a job?

Thanks in advance for any responses.",3,0,28.12616373029848,GradSchool
So I made an ass of myself to my graduate advisor,"Earlier today in a brief anxiety spell, I sent an email to my professor basically saying, ""I have no clue what I am doing and I don't think I will be able to complete my thesis, none of my codes are working correctly and I don't have the skills to fix them in time. So I will be dropping out of the Master's program. My apologies for wasting this time.""

However, their response was encouraging me to stay, basically saying that it is only a tiny part that isn't working correctly but even without that, we should have enough to write a thesis.

After calming down a bit, I realized I was a dumb-ass. But now I feel embarrassed to recall by desire to quit, and pride is preventing me from responding and agreeing to stay.

Dear god I am an idiot",54,237,28.1840109525207,GradSchool
What’s the dumbest mistake you made???,Made the stupidest mistake and thought my quiz was due the following day online but it was actually the night before.  Quizzes are 10 pts and of you miss them there is no exception.  I’m so upset at myself... I just cried and got the worse headache now.  Please send me the stupidest shit you ever did in grad school but still came out alive so I stop feeling so bad for myself.,28,9,28.209740119187366,GradSchool
What area of materials science should I go into to have a high marginal impact on climate change?,"I have my undergrad in chemical engineering, a couple years experience post-undergrad working with aerogels, and research experience in several different fields (bio, magnetics, etc) from my time in school. I'm looking to go back to school for materials science/engineering. I'm very interested in doing some kind of work to help reduce/mitigate the impact of climate change. I'm also interested in electronic materials.

The obvious path, and the one I've done the most looking into so far, is to try to get involved in research surrounding solar power. However, I'm worried that the solar power field is already so saturated that my marginal impact will be small. Are there other areas in materials science/engineering where I could have a higher marginal impact on climate change? Bonus points if those areas are in electronic materials, but that's not a requirement. There are lots of other interesting areas of materials science that I'd love working in.",9,1,28.296672989557738,GradSchool
Writing Burnout,"Without going into too much detail, I’ve had a rough year. This meant that during my summer, I was writing essays that should have been done in April throughout the course of July and August. I didn’t give myself much of a break. 

I find that even though I can still read and process material with no problem, I just can’t seem to write as well as I usually do. My grades haven’t seemed to taken a hit (although I’ve only submitted one assignment so far, so it’s a little early to tell). Has anyone had this issue? Any advice would be appreciated!",3,10,28.297367434002183,GradSchool
Is Two Papers Too Much to Expect from a Master's?,"A little bit of background, my Master's degree is in an environmental science related field and my advisor is an ecosystem ecologist. Thus, projects in this field often involve heavy fieldwork data collection before you can even start analyzing the data and writing papers. I have already successfully defended my thesis, submitted my thesis manuscript to a journal, received comments from peer reviewers, and am working with my committee to address those comments and resubmit. However, my advisor expects two papers from me and the 2nd paper is currently in a state where I'm still creating figures with just some of the results section written. I am over two years in, am a sustaining student, and I honestly want to just leave to make more money and not have to worry about paper 2. Other Master's students in the same program also have an advisor who expects two papers but he takes the lead on the 2nd paper as he knows his students are busy working in industry and won't have time to revise and write. Mine is not doing this. At times I feel like a failure for not having more of paper 2 done but at others I'm questioning my advisor's expectations. His previous Master's student was able to do this but it seems like a monumental effort to publish two papers within two years as a new inexperienced scientist. Isn't the norm for a PhD three papers, why should a Master's student be expected to do one less in 3 less years? How do you all feel about this, is this an unreasonable expectation or should I have done more to try and meet it?",6,1,28.341719285854033,GradSchool
Red Lines in Report,"Ok so after a whole year of research and things, my PI asked me, for the first time ever, to write a report for our client just kind of summarizing some of the main findings, what we're changing for our next specimen, and why. I wrote a 3 page report, gave it to him, and a few days later (last night) he sent me back the 3 pages with probably all but 5 sentences red lined.

&#x200B;

1. Is this common? Am I just bad at technical writing for academia?
2. If he explicitly wrote out sentences that he prefers, is it plagiarism for me to use those sentences exactly? His name *is* first on the report.",6,1,28.345480859928106,GradSchool
"""Safe"" schools for a niche area of research","I'm applying to PhD programs with the intent to research artificial intelligence through the lens of human learning and cognition. There are 2 universities that are a perfect fit for this, and 3-4 that are a good fit. However, these are all very competitive schools.

In reading conferences/looking at collaborators in this research area and with these schools, finding ""safer"" schools has been extremely difficult. I can sometimes find one faculty member that's working on something sort of related, but that's about as close as it gets. I've gone through most of the largest universities and all of the Googlable searches I can think of. Does anyone have any advice as to how to proceed? Should I be open to joining a general AI program and studying this niche on my own?",13,0,28.35184660066885,GradSchool
Being railroaded by a territorial peer-reviewer,"Guys, I am beyond infuriated right now.

So I submit a manuscript and the reviews come back. The first reviewer enjoys it a lot and makes helpful suggestions, the second goes on and on how I did not take into account the theoretical state-of-the-art of the field and that I need to rework the theory section to use it as a foundation. They then cite 5 papers (all with a common author and none with more than 1 or 2 citations from anyone that isn't that author, CURIOUS) that we ""need to use"". I review those papers. They are unclear and meandering, dense and almost impossible to parse, utterly useless for practitioners, which my paper is aimed at. But most importantly, *the theory is not even applicable to my paper because the author makes a fundamental assumption that cannot be applied to my work under any circumstance. In fact, logical extensions of my theory would render their theory obsolete and I could easily write another paper demonstrating this*.

So I write up a polite, but firm response letter detailing why the reviewer's requested changes will not be implemented and send the paper back. This paper has manuscript status logs and according to them, the reviewer returned their second review 12 minutes after confirming the invitation and wrote a two sentence ""review"" that just restated what they said the first time without any acknowledgement whatsoever of my response, claiming that I ""ignored"" their comments. So they didn't read my response obviously.

Now I'm mad, reddit. I contacted the editorial office to notify them of this, and I honestly would not mind if they out and out rejected me at this point. Am I out of line here? Is this common?",28,156,28.38955493400218,GradSchool
Advice for dealing w/ (Borderline) Belligerent Student?,"Originally posted to wrong sub, so I deleted. Apologies if you've seen this already.

TL;DR Cocky kid without the skills to back it up tried to correct me, they were wrong, and it was a derail.

I'm a TA at an American R1 for context, and I had a student in a very low-level freshman level class take me on a two minute digression where they argued with me on a routine part of a calculation. Instructors make mistakes on blackboard calculations all the time, but in this case, they took issue with a well-established pratice. I explained that what they had in mind was unnecessary and told them not to worry about it for the moment (I was running out of class time). 

They were insistent that I wasn't approaching the problem correctly based on an aesthetic argument (""doesn't seem very scientific"") and I assured them that this is how the field handles these things. They then proceeded to make a comment that I genuinely missed as I hauled the whole class back on track, but what little I caught of it was snide. Because I didn't catch it, I couldn't decide how to respond, so I ignored it (which may have been appropriate even if I knew what they said.)

In retrospect and in future, I'll ask them to prove their pet theories mathematically on paper for me and move on when I'm pressed for time (not in those exact words). I am wondering if anyone has other advice.",16,3,28.40111743400218,GradSchool
calling supervisor by their first name?,"hi there! im a first year masters student, so this might be a silly question. i have heard other grad students in my research group refer to our supervisors by their first name, is this okay for me to do? thank you!",13,2,28.415793359928106,GradSchool
I feel more confused about what I want to do with my life now that I'm done with my post-grad degree than ever before,Submitted my LL.M. dissertation in August and am facing the utter terror of having less of an idea of what I want to do now than I did after my undergraduate degree. Thankfully have a bit of time (and the financial means) to tide myself over a bit and figure out what it is that I want to do but have such a hard time even knowing where it is to begin... advice? Tips? Solidarity with the confusion?,3,17,28.548455396965146,GradSchool
Help me out with gathering data,"Hey guys, could you help me out with gathering data? It's a short survey that takes approximately 5-10 minutes to fill in. It's mobile friendly. I need to get enough responses and you would be a big help! 

I would really appreciate it, but if you don't have time that's fine ;) 

https://tilburgss.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6FG47lMoTmP4PFb

Thanks in advance!",3,0,28.646510952520703,GradSchool
"What is your system for reading for, preparing for, and participating in seminars with heavy discussion?","Trying to improve my study methods and performance in classes. I feel like I'm more talkative in the ones where I know a lot of relevant material and can make connections easily. But I also get kinda nervous talking in class regardless. I am also struggling for time to read closely, and can only skim and read intro/conclusion a lot of the time. I have heard that this is the norm but I get worried when I go to classes that I didn't read enough. But often I can say a few good things in class this way...still I feel like maybe there are more efficient and effective ways to be a grad student? Idk. Would love to hear advice/tips/routines/etc.",3,6,28.797992434002182,GradSchool
Resources to assist in writing a strong letter of intent/personal statement?,"BS in psychology class of 17’. Worked in a residential treatment facility and had the pleasure of working with LCSW’s (licensed clinical social worker) and am incredibly inspired to become an LCSW myself.  

So I’m applying to master’s of social work programs but feel stuck when it comes to formulating my letter of intent/personal statement. 

Any resources that anyone knows about to help brush up on my writing?",1,1,28.81695076733552,GradSchool
HEEEEELLLLLPPPPP!!!,"Hey hey! Help out a friend in need! Take this quick 5 minute consumer survey; It’s completely voluntary and all responses are anonymous. It’s for my MBA entrepreneurship class. Feel free to share it with your friends as well. 

Thanks a bunch! 

https://form.jotform.com/92577829999184",2,0,28.863883637705886,GradSchool
Grad School Application Question,"I am applying to a program where I need to attach my transcript to the online application. I have successfully retrieved my transcript from the National Clearinghouse. It comes secured/signed which only lets me open it in Adobe Acrobat reader. Should I attach this file or make a copy of the document and attach a new copy where it will open in Preview/Chrome?
It is not specified in the application, so I wanted to know if anyone else came into this situation before?


Thanks for your input!",5,0,28.891186878446625,GradSchool
"MSc defense coming up and I don't understand the Stats, would really appreciate help!","Hey guys,

My defense is coming up next week, and I've been pushing off trying to understand why we ran the stats that we did - I don't think my supervisor understands it either because every time I ask him, he brushes it off and can't seem to explain fully why we did what we did. And I'm starting to doubt whether it's even correct...  I have no idea how to justify the tests we ran and i'm really panicking so I hope someone here can help. I've bolded my main questions throughout this post. To put simply what I did:

I used multivariate ANOVA and univariate ANOVA. Fisher Post Hoc to determine significance for all data except for one, where we ran independant t-tests for one of the data sets. Now to give more info:

2 sets of data were analyzed with Multivariate ANOVA: 

1. Data set #1: my dependant variable was number of cells counted. Independant variables were digits 1,2,3,4,5 ; sex (female/male) and genotype (knockout/wildtype)
2. Data set #2: my dependant variable was the % of response to different amounts of forces of mechanical stimuli. Independant variables were sex (female/male) and genotype (knockout/wildtype) and **should the different amounts of forces of mechanical stimuli also be an independant variable?** This was also the test where my supervisor used independant t-tests to determine significance levels at each force between wild type and knockout mice... and I have no idea why.  I know he didn't find significance using Fisher post hoc.

**Am I right in thinking that multivariate anova should be used here because I have 1 dependant variable and multiple independant variables? Is there anything about assumptions/normal distribution/tests i should have ran on my data before deciding to use ANOVA?**

For Univariate ANOVA:

1. My dependant variable was time spent on a hot plate in seconds. My Independant variables were sex (female/male) and genotype (knockout/wildtype) - **So I thought that for univariate ANOVA.. you should only use it if you have 1 independant variable and 1 dependant variable, was this the right test to use in this case? If so, can someone explain to me how to justify why univariate ANOVA should be used in this case?**

&#x200B;

I don't want to make this post too long so i'll stop here but thank you so much in advance. 

\- From a crying grad student",7,7,28.903108174742925,GradSchool
"Looking to do a Masters (Public Policy or International Relations) In China. However, I already graduated law school...","Title says all. I am looking to get a Masters degree in a political field in China (Public Policy, International relations, etc.). I've done some digging but have no idea where to begin with the application process.  Can anyone help me out with this?",0,1,28.955411415483663,GradSchool
Tips on paper discussions for lab meetings,Does anyone have tips on how to lead a paper discussion? PI wants us to read papers and lead discussions every week and I’m starting us off. How do I make sure it’s more of a discussion and doesn’t end up with me talking at people?,4,8,28.968733174742926,GradSchool
How do you pick yourself up after an especially unproductive day?,"I'm just looking for some advice on how to hop back on the saddle. I started the day with a to-do list, and then got completely derailed by a few administrative distractions. At the moment, I'm feeling pretty...blah.

What are some techniques you use so you're not so hard on yourself, and can start fresh the next day?",10,9,28.995422989557742,GradSchool
On a scale from Leslie Knope to Jean Ralphio...,How douchey do you think it is to have diplomas framed in your office?,80,143,28.996835026594777,GradSchool
"Applying to grad school in the fall, thinking about taking a class before I do.","Like the title says, I'm gearing up for grad school applications (I'm in my 20s, have been working in my field for a couple years). My GPA isn't where I want it, so I want to supplement my resume by taking graduate school courses this fall quarter, and also show that I'm interested in continuing my application. 

I'm split between two classes, both in my field:

1. Is a seminar class that lasts all school year long, and meets in evenings. This class contains shadowing opportunities. However, I wouldn't be able to present a grade for this class on my applications.
2. Would meet 3 times a week, which would definitely interrupt my 9-5 job, but would \*hopefully\* let me add a solid grade to supplement my applications. 

What should I do?",5,2,29.033004008076254,GradSchool
Hooking up with an undergrad in my lab?,"Is it really bad go hook up with an undergrad in you lab if you're a grad student. 
Just so everyone knows I'm a 24 year old female grad student and the undergrad is a 20 year old male. 

How much trouble would you get in if caught? 

Both parties are completely consenting.",11,0,29.05371002659478,GradSchool
Looking for History program recommendations in New England,"I have a 3.9 GPA and I'm in my Junior year of undergrad. I have multiple internships and assistantships under my belt already and have more planned. I'm also a McNair scholar if any of you know that program. 

I currently attend undergrad in the Midwest, but my fiance lives in CT and doesn't want to move too far from home, but is going to follow me to the city I attend for school since his job is flexible on location. 

I'm a History and Native American Indigenous Studies double major and a Deaf Studies minor. 

I'm interested in both early history, indigenous history, and public history (as I'm starting to believe I want to work in a Museum).

Any recommendations would be much help.",9,1,29.05446234140959,GradSchool
Overwhelmed pursuing a master's degree in new field,"I completed my undergrad in biomedical engineering and I then spent the next 2 years working in industry in business operations and supply chain for medical devices.

I've recently gone back to grad school to pursue a master's degree in Analytics which is a new field for me. I'm currently in an optimization class.  I feel kind of overwhelmed. I feel like there's so many prerequisites and foundational things that I don't know. I never took Linear Algebra in undergrad and never did much with MATLAB.

How do you all go about balancing keeping up and doing well with current courses while getting up to speed with the foundational stuff?",7,4,29.123328082150334,GradSchool
How to handle the week before your qualifying exam oral defense?,"My qual is next wedesnday and I’m simultaneously freaking out while also feeling really prepared and kind of over studying. 

I’ve already done and submitted the written proposal and feel good defending it though I expect many aspects of my project will change afterwards. The oral defense is 2-3 hours of questions over our presentation. I’ve done practice runs with other students in my department and they say I’m mostly ready but tend to ramble and create tangents sometimes if I don’t know the immediate answer.

What would you guys suggest I do to finish preparing? My PI says I should only spend like 2 hours studying per day and do some experiments this week and next to focus on something else, but to me that feels almost irresponsible.",1,2,29.140897526594774,GradSchool
Tips on Discussion section.,"Hello everyone, 

I really should not be on reddit right now, but here I am! I am a Master's thesis student in the field of Ecology trying to finish up my thesis document. I have successfully completed the introduction all the way to the results (and figures/tables); however, I am really stuck on the discussion section.

I was wondering if anyone had any tips on how they go about writing this section? I would greatly appreciate any advice as my thesis is due on 11/1 and I have barely made headway on this section. So, I am freaking out slightly. Thank you for any advice you may have!",1,3,29.190064193261442,GradSchool
Should I begin my STEM personal statement with an short story?,"I've been reading up on the best ways to write a personal statement, with some statements beginning with a short story either from a third or first person point of view.  This is often pushed in undergraduate college essays but I'm just not sure if it is the best thing to do when writing for a STEM based graduate program.  I think this could work as answer as to why I am interested in the selected field of study.  However, I'm worried that this may be seen as superfluous and distracting as the applicant readers are less likely to care about any creative writing and more about the content of the application.  Should I avoid writing a short first personal narrative as my introduction or would you think this would help to strengthen a personal statement? Thanks",1,1,29.29605956363181,GradSchool
It's GRE day and I don't feel confident at all,"How much is Grad School really gonna care if I bomb this?

Edit: beat my target by 9 points, thank you all for the encouragement!",35,136,29.390353545113292,GradSchool
First year Master's student beginning new job as an exam proctor and grader. What should I expect?,"So I just started my Master's program in applied economics, and I was offered a job position of being an exam proctor and a grader (most likely exams, but possibly homework assignments, as well) for undergraduate economics/business classes. I have never done this before, so I'd like to ask you guys: what should I expect from doing this job? What resources should I use if I am having troubles with this position, if they ever come up?",1,2,29.440700767335517,GradSchool
Lack of motivation and bad working enviroment in my lab - Quit PhD ?,"Hi guys,

So I finished my Bsc and Msc in Biology in Greece and wanted to persue a PhD opportunity but as funding was non existent in Greece, I went to Belgium to try to secure a national funding. The first time I tried to get it through a PhD-like proposal presentation, I failed but my P.I. found a funding from the lab to keep me until I can try for a second time next year. In 2018, I got the funding and I already had done some work to show in the Funds Commitee.

After that, things went downhill.. The lab and the P.I. are awful, they are completely lacking communication skills, they barely help and can't properly give information/advice (maybe it's also the language gap of English and French). They are distant and think less of me. So in my second year the progress was almost non existent and I went through a PhD progress presentation to my 3 people PhD commitee and they said that even though the results are OK, I share the project with too many people in the lab (something the P.I doesn't understand) and my input needs to be higher. I argued with that with my P.I, he said that other people say that I am missing from the lab and I don't work enough, which is not true. Sometimes I leave early in the afternoon cause I am a kind of person that likes to have a social life, do sports etc while people here are so focused to work that they lack a well rounded lifestyle (which might be OK for them, no judgement, but it is not for me). 

So I said to my P.I that if he doesn't start to respect me, start giving good advice (he almost knows nothing on the project and just waits results) and not constantly act as a guy who just monitors me, waits for a mistake or an opportunity to give me critisism, I will stop my PhD. 

The thing is that I don't want nor I am able to stay for a 5th year of PhD here as my funds are for 4 years and I have to go back to Greece to do my military service and find a job. But from all those things that happened, I find it difficult that in 2 years I will be able to do as much work as they want me to defend my PhD and I don't want to waste 4 years for nothing. 

What should I do ? Any advice or similar experiences will be much appreciated... Sorry for the long post",4,14,29.48156882289107,GradSchool
"New Plant/Microbial B.S., looking towards grad school....","I'm a new graduate in the Twin Cities (MN, USA) and I'm looking for some insight for career/academic opportunities if I were to pursue a PhD in Plant Biology with an emphasis on biochemistry and molecular biology. I'm especially interested in genetic editing and food or product creation. I really enjoyed learning about metabolic processes and the terpenoid compounds. If there are any Plant Bios out there please help!! Your feedback is much appreciated :)",1,3,29.56805030437255,GradSchool
How to not be defeated by your PhD,,6,12,29.73696234140959,GradSchool
MS without thesis for exposure?,"I am interested in doing a PhD in Marine Biology in the next few years. I'd rather do a masters first in order to ease my transition into the PhD and because my undergrad major isn't the same field. Based on my research on this forum, a masters with a thesis is preferred if going into academia. However, I feel like I should do a Non-thesis degree in order to experience more courses and to identify my interests before going into a PhD program and concentrating on a topic. My priority is in widening my exposure to the field rather than improving my PhD admissions chance. Is my rationale wrong?",3,5,29.826267896965145,GradSchool
Trying to get over the last hurdle,"Currently finishing up the last (sadly overdue) paper for my MA. This program has been so much, it’s only a year so there’s a lot of course work that has to be done in a short time, and I’m only now feeling like I’m getting a grasp on the whole grad school things, learning how best I operate to do work, readings, etc. Frustrated it’s taken so long to get to this point (had some health stuff, hence the overdue work).

So grateful my prof gave me extra time (yay chronic illnesses) but now I have to get this paper done tonight so I can graduate and my fatigue and anxiety is making it almost impossible atm. The stress from the paper, and worry over the grade, and stress of just having come back home is all culminating in a less than ideal mental situation atm.

Kind words would be appreciated. I am so close, but it still feels so damn far.",2,1,29.835932248816995,GradSchool
How to list GRE scores on CV?,"I am applying to a plant science graduate program. The professor specifically said ""resume/CV including GRE scores""  
The problem is I can't find an example of how to list my GRE score on a CV. Any help or examples would be greatly appreciated!",11,0,29.85464752659478,GradSchool
Spreadsheet crowdsourcing grad student working conditions,,9,1,29.861626693261442,GradSchool
Dealing with failure,"Hi all, I'm starting the second year of a 3-year master's program, with a field based research thesis. My first season of data collection was an utter failure. For reasons outside of my control, I got a much, much smaller sample size than we anticipated and I can't use the data I have to answer my original research question, or any other research question I can think of at the moment. I have a conference coming up in a month where I am supposed to present preliminary results and I have nothing. I'm trying to pull myself back up by my bootstraps and try again, but I feel so disheartened. 

On top of that, my adviser wants me to decide this month whether or not I want to convert to a PhD so we can make funding allocation decisions. I was considering it before but right now it's just hard to imagine sticking with this for longer than I originally planned, having the additional pressure of needing to publish, do prelims, all that. Even though my adviser has been really supportive I just feel like a total fuck-up and I have no faith that I can do any better going forward. Any field scientists dug themselves out of a similar situation? How did you cope and find your way back? How did you manage to succeed even after all the time and effort you spent seemed like a waste?",7,11,29.8696359525207,GradSchool
do you ever stop getting anxious about talks?,asking for a friend,8,8,29.899439193261443,GradSchool
Comps for a M.S. student entering a Ph.D program,Basically what the title says. If I have an M.S. and matriculate into a Ph.D program do I still have to take comps? And when would I take them?,3,2,29.907286415483664,GradSchool
Questions on Human-Computer Interactions Master's Program,"Hello all,  

&nbsp;


I'm considering enrolling in the EIT (European Institute of Innovation and Technology) Digital Masters Program in HCI (Human-Computer Interaction). The program is relatively new so if anyone knows much about it or has any opinions of it after reading through the below link please let me know.  


&nbsp;


https://masterschool.eitdigital.eu/programmes/hcid/  


&nbsp;


Overall it seems like a great way to advance my career as a Software Engineer while also studying abroad for two years, but I have a few hangups I just wanted to vent here and see what people more knowledgeable than I think.  


&nbsp;


* The program is ~$27k. I have enough money saved to cover the majority of this along with living expenses, but I've always heard that Engineers shouldn't ever pay for their own Master's. On top of this, I'm worried about whether or not it's worth 2+ years of lost income from not working. I enjoy my job now and make good money, but nothing crazy for a Software Engineer.
* At the end of the program, I'll have two Masters degrees - one from the each university I study at. In the marketplace, is this equivalent to a single Masters from a two-year program?
* A lot of the value of a Masters is in the connections/network you build while enrolled. I don't have plans to stay in Europe for more than a year or two after graduation, so am I essentially missing out on critical network-building that I would get in a US Masters?  


&nbsp;


In general, I know that this program will be a good way to advance my career and explore the world for a two-year stint. I guess I'm just concerned as to whether or not this is the smartest career/financial move for me right now.  


&nbsp;


Any and all advice is feedback appreciated! :)",3,1,29.912980859928112,GradSchool
What resources do you use for formatting and submitting your first manuscript?,"Obviously I know where to find ""instructions for authors"" for the journals I'm interested in. My question relates to whether you use a specific template for writing and other tools for managing your document. Thanks in advance.",6,1,29.984416045113292,GradSchool
fields to transition into from Modern Languages,"hey guys

i got a degree in German Lang & Lit. i used to want to be a German professor, but after watching every German teacher I've had struggle to keep their job, i am looking to transition away.

i am currently in Spain teaching English in a post graduate program (just a certificate,) but am enjoying my time. it has got me thinking about other paths I might not have considered.

I am considering an MA in TESOL. job market seems pretty good in spain (I live here with my SO and enjoy it quite a bit.) could always do okay in the US too.

what other fields are within arms reach? I am assuming some things like History, Sociology, continuing German of course. I don't want to come across as diving into something willy nilly, I just want to manage my expectations. 

Ideally something that lends itself to employment in Spain or US.  that being said, my SO is a total smartypants electrical engineer and could get a job in Germany. although it's very hard to get a job there outside of STEM, if you have any ideas I am open.",5,2,30.003420674742923,GradSchool
How early should I contact potential grad advisors?,"I'm going to graduate undergrad in december of 2020. 

I have a list of grad advisors that I would really love to work with. And I have what I consider a lot of experience in the field and subdiscipline which I'm going into.

I was thinking about starting to contact people right about now. However, I'm not really sure what the optimum timing is here. Is this too early to reach out? Or should I go ahead and start the process?

(I'm in the biology/ecology field by the way)

Any advice is appreciated! Thanks",20,1,30.063698452520704,GradSchool
GRE compared to the ASVAB?,"Does anyone here have experience with both tests? How would you say they compare?

I never took the SATs or ACTs, but I did have to take the ASVAB to join the military. I *also*  took (and passed) the DLAB. 

Currently finishing prep for the GRE in the next few weeks and was hoping someone could shed some light on whether or not there would be similarities, either in structure or difficulty",7,1,30.088316508076257,GradSchool
Do you guys ever skip over entire chapters when reading books?,"Now, I know that it is okay to skip over chapters of books, especially depending on one’s interests and/or research. But I’ve been slowly trying to break myself of the “must read everything mentality” since taking courses that require 1 book (plus articles) read a week, and still struggle with this dilemma. Do you guys ever just skip over entire chapters? Or do you at least give it the ol’ read the first (and last) sentence of each paragraph? In the past, I found that as long as I have enough to speak about i class that this is never a problem. However, I always feel bad about this in terms of not giving the work (which can be extremely interesting) enough attention or feeling like I might be arriving to class under prepared. Or worse, I might forget everything I “read” because I skimmed too hard.",58,140,30.15577021177996,GradSchool
Does SOP and LORs go through plagiarism detectors?,"I have contacted my professors for LORs, they said that I mail them a rough draft and then they'll add and modify some things to it, So I thought of using some templates that are available on the internet . I am afraid it might be viewed as plagiarism and get my application rejected. what are your thoughts on this?",4,0,30.225978545113296,GradSchool
Any success stories for getting into grad school with low gpa?,"Just curious to see if there is anyone out there with a success story for getting your desired grad program with a less than stellar gpa. 

My undergrad school is a top 100 program so the uni is competitive.

During undergrad years I worked two jobs and one of them is directly related to my masters field but my gpa suffered badly (2.62) 

So I have 7 years work experience with my field, did decent on the GRE (318) and have great letters of rec. 

Would love to hear from you beautiful people and hear your stories!",18,2,30.278999378446628,GradSchool
best online grad schools for mba / health care / management?,"hi i am thinking of apply to grad school online like next year or later.  masters programs

what're the best online grad schools? 

my reqirements: no letter of recommendation.  i didnt think grad school can be admitted without a letter, but tons of friends got into grad school with just a transcript.  no resume or antything either!

also requirement: diploma wont say its from online school (not a super important requriement)

subjects interested in are: 

* mba, 

* heath care, 

* management

i have looked at ""university of the people "".  what others are there?  what would you recommend?

my gpa is not good but at least a 2.0.  a friend got into mba school with horrible grades like nearly straight f's in one sememster.  i think his gpa like 2.01.

tuition fees unimportant, just need easy requirements to get in

thank you!",15,2,30.312668359928107,GradSchool
Would a FIN (f incomplete) grade affect the chance of going to a grand school?,"I got q FIN in one class which I am retake it. I know if I get an A, the FIN will disappear from my gpa but it will stay in my transcript.
Do I have a chance of going to a grad school?",4,0,30.37605956363181,GradSchool
Got a B- on my first grad school exam,"Did far below my peers on my organic chem exam, got a B- for it.  Organic chem is my hardest course, but I’m doing well in my other two courses. It kinda feels like a slap in the face since organic chem was my best class in undergrad.  I studied as best as I could for it too. I honestly don’t think I could’ve done better. 

Will I be alright?  How will this affect rotation labs?  This has really got me down.

Edit: thank you for all your stories and support everyone! It really helped me calm down. I’m doing fine in all my other classes, and I’m doing well in my research lab. I think I might just cut my losses in this class and make it up by doing better in lab. 1 B- on my transcript will be manageable as long as I do well in my other classes.",61,75,30.410492434002183,GradSchool
Best way to take notes on a pdf on a $100 budget?,"Pretty much I noticed how many articles I'm going to have to read in pdf is there anything you'd suggest to make note-taking easier since I remember more if I do it by hand. I was thinking of using a Wacom tablet or something but came to you guys for suggestions. Also, would I need any special software for the note-taking?",20,4,30.41909197103922,GradSchool
In ~30 hours I’ll be starting my PhD in the UK. Any advice for internationals?,"I’d already started a PhD programme in another country that also runs on the 3-4 year schedule, so I’m not too concerned about general PhD stuff, just more the social side of things being an international student who doesn’t know that much about the UK.

I’m travelling completely alone and I’d usually prefer to spend a night at home by myself rather than go out and meet people, so making friends and getting hobbies is going to be a massive problem. I’ve never gotten homesick before, but maybe I will now, I don’t know. 

The culture might be pretty different and I’m also a bit worried about losing my accent or just not fitting in.",10,22,30.556881322891073,GradSchool
"Suggestions for business schools in Canada, US and Europe offering degrees in media management","Hi, I want a business degree in media management so that I can work for TV industries, production houses and such and such. What are some b schools you would recommend in Canada, US and Europe that offer the program or something similar at the very least? Thank you for your help!",1,0,30.688235489557737,GradSchool
The Postdoctoral Experience: Not Always What You Expect,"💖

**The Postdoctoral Experience: Not Always What You Expect**

[https://www.sciencemag.org/features/2008/08/postdoc-experience-not-always-what-you-expect](https://www.sciencemag.org/features/2008/08/postdoc-experience-not-always-what-you-expect)

**Education-Training-Experience-Knowledge-Skills-Attributes**

[http://jorgecham.com/](http://jorgecham.com/)

[https://www.flickr.com/photos/bendeverman/albums/72157628106845655](https://www.flickr.com/photos/bendeverman/albums/72157628106845655)

[https://www.flickr.com/photos/bendeverman/albums/72157627568602817/](https://www.flickr.com/photos/bendeverman/albums/72157627568602817/)",0,0,30.706615119187365,GradSchool
Follow up on iPad question...,"I saw u/xocorros ‘s post about iPad viability in grad school. It seems like the general consensus was that an iPad (or other brand) works perfectly for note taking and reading, but I didn’t see anything about writing, hence my question:

Apple or otherwise, would it be worth it to buy a tablet for WRITING  papers?

I’m not familiar with a mobile version of Word, but am willing to learn if it’s worth it in other areas (weight, portability, battery life, etc.). Lots of my writing consists of lit reviews, so I’m hesitant to buy a tablet if it’ll be difficult to work on.

Thanks!",10,4,30.768397526594775,GradSchool
Research lately has been a tedius drag. I'm bored and have no discipline. Help.,"**TLDR:  for the past couple weeks I’ve hardly touched my research paper that’s “nearly finished”. Research has become a laundry list of stuff my advisor tells me to fix (no science) and it’s making me kind of depressed, plus I have no self-control. So all in all, i now find this project boring as shit and I wanna know how I can power through and finish something I kind of hate.**



i’m going into my second year of a PhD program. Still a bunch of classes to do this year, but I've been doing a lot of research too. I’ve beeen working on my current project for about a year in graduate school and then a few months during my undergrad while I was doing an internship.

It was a somewhat interesting project at first, but really I chose it beause my advisor said I would have a better chance of publishing sooner (she basically promised we’d get it done in my first year). Last Fall my advisor said we would be finished and submitting for publication by January, in January she said by Spring. In Spring she said we would at least be able to send something to the co-authors by September. Now we really are getting close (at least that’s what she says). The paper is at least filled out thoroughly. 
My project has just gotten to the point where the science is over and I'm just adding meat to the writing and fixing small errors. I just have a laundry list of shit she tellls me to fix every week and it’s so uninspiring and SO BORING. It’s making me a little depressed. 
 

It’s just annoying. I haven’t been able to force myself to do it and she’s always absent so no one else is forcing me to do it either.
i feel like we could be done if she paid a little more attention to me and our project… but she’s so fucking busy with traveling, her senior grad students, and more interesting projects that I think I’m kind of her last priority rn. I just feel like she doesn’t care anymore and when I first started I felt like she did. 

I'm not saying it's her fault because I know in the end if I just had more discipline and powered through that I could do more... I could nag her and push her to help me and we could have gotten done already maybe…. but I don’t have the motivation or discipline to do that I guess. I just feel stuck and bored. How do I push myself to just finish this?",5,7,30.827066508076257,GradSchool
Is it too late & how poorly does my academic background reflect on me?,"In short, I have academic backgrounds in biotechnology, ecology, and now i'm doing my MSc in biomedicine - they are all separate degrees. I did ecology because I love nature and I've always wanted to dip my toe in that field, ultimately I went back to biomedicine because I thought a life in ecology would be too confusing as it's *so new* and job prospects are not as widely available (and lucrative?). Now I'm halfway through my Master's but I find myself missing ecology and wondering if I made the wrong decision because I do value conservation work and I'm not sure what to do - quit? Start over in another MSc? How will my CV look like to future employers - will they think I'm wishy-washy and am a confused youth (which I totally am)? It's a significant portion of my existential crises. 

Anyone here ever had such dilemmas and what did you do?",5,2,31.022251693261442,GradSchool
question regarding initial application to grad school.,"Hi, I'm interested in pursuing an MS degree in Forensic Anthropology for either 2020 Fall or 2021 Spring. It all depends on whether I can get the cover letters. From what I've read online I have to essentially go meet professors I want to work under in person since they are more likely to accept you. I still haven't emailed anyone, but I have 6 different ones from 3 different Universities. I'm really confused about what I should ask them during the interview besides asking if they are taking any graduate students and what my research interest are. Can anyone shed some light into what I should ask or say during this face to face meet cause I'm beyond lost atm.",4,1,31.054578082150332,GradSchool
Need help deciding between two school; UNE and St. Thomas university in Florida,"Hello gradschool,

My wife has been accepted to both The University of New England’s and St. Thomas University’s online doctorate programs in educational leadership. She is looking for any advice or warning before making a final decision. 

Would either of these universities’ degrees be more beneficial to specific career paths?

We appreciate and advice you all have. 

Thank you",2,0,31.09386048955774,GradSchool
Project Management Recommendations?,"I’m going to be coordinating a single-site multi-team research project in the next few months, and I was wondering if y’all have any recommendations for project management software and tools. I’m familiar with the classics (Trello, Google Drive), but any other free/very low cost software recommendations would be amazing. Thanks in advance!",7,2,31.126719285854037,GradSchool
Anyone have a MS degree? Need some help,I have a class assignment to interview two people with master's of science degrees about the advantages and disadvantages of a specific field where they are currently employed. Everyone who I've contacted hasn't gotten back to me and the assignment deadline is coming up. If you can give me a personal intro and just a few sentences that would be great!,6,0,31.1733859525207,GradSchool
Is an iPad (or similar device) worth what it’ll cost as a PhD student?,"I currently have a mid-range Dell laptop (RIP my MacBook Pro, how I miss you) that works fine but is large, heavy, and difficult to transport. I’ve been thinking about getting an iPad for reading and annotating papers for research/working on my dissertation prospectus on the go. I just can’t decide if it’s worth the cost. 

I have students and colleagues who swear by the iPad Pro, but at what it’ll cost me, it almost seems like it’d be better to save up a little longer and get a MacBook again. The iPad Mini seems attractive though for its smaller size but good specs. The plain iPad would be the budget choice of course, but I don’t know if it would be sufficient. 

What do you all think? Do you use tablets on the day to day in grad school/academia?

Edit: I’m a literature PhD student for what that’s worth 

TL;DR - I’m considering getting a tablet to use in conjunction with my ungainly (but functional) laptop for grad school and can’t decide if it’s worth the cost.

Edit 2: Thank you all SO MUCH for the great advice! This is exactly what I needed - the perspective of fellow grad students 😊",90,88,31.216591971039218,GradSchool
Advice on module choice for my MA in IR,"Hello, Im to be studying my Masters in International Relations at the University of Nottingham this month and I will have to choose my modules in 2-3 weeks, after my initial induction week. While I already know what interests me, I was wondering if I could get some advice on whether there are some modules that would be meaningfully better in terms of employment or use than others.

Thanks a lot

I have heard that trying to specialise into a region or hot-button issue like sustainnable development is a solid plan, is this the case?

The full list of modules is here, the modules I am interested in are in bold font:

**China and the World**

^(Comparative Democratic Development)

**Contemporary Warfare**

**Democracy and Elites in 20th Century Europe and America**

^(Disasters, Rehabilitation and Resilience)

**EU-China: Trade, Aid and Public Diplomacy in the 21st Century**

^(Gender and Development)

^(Global Asia)

**Government and Politics of China**

**Institutions, Governance and International Development**

**International Political Economy**

^(Justice Beyond Borders: Theories of International and Intergenerational Justice)

^(The Politics of South Asia)

**Russia in the World Today**

**Secret Intelligence and International Security**

^(Special Project A)

^(Special Project B)

**Terrorism and Insurgencies  -(possibly)**

**The Theory and Practice of Diplomacy**

**War, Peace and Terror  -(possibly)**

**When Does Russia Expand and Why?**",0,2,31.22137206363181,GradSchool
"Should I put my master's degree on my resume as ""in progress""?","I haven't enrolled in any classes yet, but I've already accepted the offer and was assigned an adviser. It's a part time graduate program  (I'm required to take one class a year to stay enrolled), so I want to work full time while I complete it. Problem is, I'm having trouble landing a career with just my BS degree. 

Also, when should I start applying to jobs that require an MS in order to be considered? Thank you guys for insight!",9,1,31.240758637705888,GradSchool
Research needed to get UCB/Cornell M.Eng in CS?,"There are two M.Eng in Computer Science programs I am looking at: Cornell and UC Berkeley. They are both 1 year long and course based instead of research.

Since they do not involve research in the degree, can I assume that I can get into these programs without undergraduate research?

For example, If I graduate with a 3.9 GPA from a state school and at 330 GRE score and have Industry experience at top companies (Google, Facebook, Airbnb, etc) , will that all be enough to get admitted into a program like this? Or would research still be required? 

Also anybody have opinions on if these programs are respected or just considered “cash cows”?

Thanks",3,0,31.688976230298483,GradSchool
Carrying the financial load,So my partner has been laid off of work for 6 months. And before that he was only employed for 5 months and was laid off for 6 months prior to that. I'm now a 3rd year phd student and carrying the financial burden. The stress is taking its toll on me but also he's feeling really low and bad about himself from either hearing nothing or getting an interview but then not getting the job. How do I help him feel better but also just get a damn job so we can be in a better financial situation to start a family?,6,0,31.784300304372554,GradSchool
Overwhelmed First Year Grad Student,"Hi! I am in my first year of grad school part time while also working part time hours although my job is some-what demanding. I have always wanted to get my Masters degree and now that I am finally in the program, it's like I can't wrap my head around it. I've done full time school while working part time and breezed through that but now it's different. I think it's because I want this so badly and I don't want to mess it up that it's causing me to stress? is this normal? I am preceding with my usual routine and life -- more exercising though -- but I'm overwhelmed. Also, I feel less competent than my peers who seem to fit in just fine after hearing their opinions during discussion. help please!",3,2,31.85516835992811,GradSchool
Letter of Rec from a post-doc a good idea?,"So I joined up with a few PhDs to form an independent working group. We are waiting to hear back on funding at the moment. If we are successful, would a letter of rec from the PI (recent PhD, current post-doc) be a better idea than faculty?

I graduated back in December '17. I have one letter from a professor that I TA'd for/got two A's from (area of focus isn't super relevant for the programs), a professor I did summer research with (relevant), and a professor I did undergrad research with/got one A from (relevant). I'm thinking about changing out the TA prof for this more recent research one. Good idea?

My GPA/GRE are high. The programs are complexity & computer science. There is another post on here asking the same question, but their PI (faculty) could sign-off on the post-doc's letter which isn't possible in my situation.",3,0,31.894612804372553,GradSchool
PhD students who experienced depression in their first year-- when did it start for you?,"With the alarming stats that >50% of PhD students experience depression and/or other mental health problems, and as a (now former) grad student who experienced depression my first year, I was wondering when/why/and how these feelings began for other grad students. If you could provide your field of study, about what month you started experiencing symptoms, and any precipitating events. This isn't for any formal purpose except general curiosity and interest.

For me, my field was biology and I started getting depressed towards the end of October in my first year, after the first round of exams were done and I hadn't scored as high as I hoped in one class. It's also when the supreme loneliness of being in a new place started to set it, and I had no one to turn to for support.",35,22,31.912726230298478,GradSchool
Personal Statement formatted incorrectly on submitted grad application,"So I submitted one of my applications today and the school had their own portal to submit it. They also had no way to attach a document for the personal statement and instead you cut/paste in their designated section or manually type it out. I had my essay in a Word document and decided to cut and paste and spent a good 20 minutes making sure it formatted correctly. I save and review the application including the statement section again and everything looked good. I submit it and review it (unable to make changes now) and the essay didn’t format correctly! So now instead of clear paragraph it’s structured with multiple one or two word sentences

‘Like

This’

I’m so upset and unfortunately submitting it today and after 5 means the admissions office is closed. Should I even bother contacting the admissions team to see if it can be fixed or is it a non issue? Keep in mind this format is majority the statement.",4,1,31.965978545113295,GradSchool
Why on every single conference/data-club/meeting there's always that person who goes WAY overtime,"This is mostly a silly rant as there are many things in gradschool that are worse than someone going overtime on their talk, but the frequency that it happens is just absurd to me. Have people no self-awareness? Once it becomes clear that they are overtime for more than a couple of minutes some people in the audience or the organizers start looking uncomfortable/annoyed, how is that something the presenter doesn't notice? I don't think I've ever been to a talk that this didn't happen at least once, and in all levels of seniority too (if anything, grad students tend to adhere to time policies better).

What gives?",9,17,32.00154567474293,GradSchool
Tips for the first contact via e-mail with a potential advisor I've been looking up online,,2,1,32.01414984140959,GradSchool
"Have you watched a spouse go through a PhD program and thought, sadistically, ""Yeah, I should do that, too?""","My spouse finished a PhD program, and I was there with her for most of it. She's amazing and killed it, but I did see her go through a lot to come out the other side. I am beginning to think about a change of career pace, myself, in the next few years. I'm just curious if anyone has been married to a PhD and gone back to get theirs, and how that experience was for you?  
  
EDIT: Of course, I should have used ""masochistically,"" not, ""sadistically."" While it was an adventure for both of us in the process, I wasn't intending to ask if I should give my spouse any ""payback"" for it! Ha! Thank you all for your responses and feedback!",26,154,32.01616373029848,GradSchool
"Graduating with MBA, not from a top school.","I just wanted to hear from some individuals that did not graduate from a top ranking school. Realistically, i know everyone isn’t going to be employed by the big three nor wants to be.
If you have a moment, could you answer a few questions for me ?

1. Did you program properly prepare you for work after graduation ?
1. How long did it take you land a job ?
2. What type of work did you end up doing ?
3. Did you reach a comfortable income ?
4. What are are you in? (City, state)
5. Do you feel like not graduating from a top school has hindered your success ?",4,1,32.049450767335514,GradSchool
System to organize multiple projects?,"Hey what do y'all use to organize all the projects you've got going? I'm analog and usually like a big whiteboard with lists and deadlines, and a color-coded calendar, but am looking for something new as I have too many things going for that. Is there a software program, or other easier analog system you love and would like to recommend? I have my phone calendar and a million to-do lists, but surely there's an easier, more efficient way out there somewhere.",11,4,32.09417298955774,GradSchool
Hard to get undergraduate research experience in the field I'm interested in?,"Sorry if this is not the right sub, but it also doesn't really fit /r/gradadmissions either so idk where to put it. I'm a CS undergrad (3rd year) and I want to do research in computer graphics, specifically rendering. I have one internship that is tangentially related (but I know industry work doesn't mean anything for grad school) and I asked a few profs who are graphics researchers at my university if they had undergrad positions available and they all said they do but there were way more people interested than total spots, and since I have no previous research experience and haven't even taken the graphics course yet (it's a 4th year course), I never end up getting selected. I feel anxious waiting until next year to try again because I would only get one shot to do something meaningful like publish a paper whereas if I do research starting in 3rd year, I have a lot more time to experiment and get decent at it in preparation for grad school. What should I do in this position?",9,2,32.12414984140959,GradSchool
Is it in poor taste to contact admissions board members for graduate programs I am applying to?,"Like many graduating seniors, I have a dream graduate school I would love to attend, and I want to make myself stand out as much as possible. I found a contact for someone I know is on the graduate admissions for the program I am applying to. Would it be in bad taste to contact that person, telling them I am interested in applying, and asking for advice for admission and/or program? Something along the lines of better understanding how they choose the applicants, and things I should note to portray on my application.

I would stay away from any question that has an easy-to-find answer. I do not know how a message like this would be perceived, or if I would actually stand out at all from doing this, or if I should ask them different types of questions.

I do have advisors I would love to work with, and will be contacting them soon to ask about their lab and the program as well.

&#x200B;

edit: fixed clarity",3,3,32.151279471039224,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Mentor a labmate?

* Learn some APIs?

* Enjoy a lazy week?

* Buy a laptop?

* Receive cool seeds?

* Apply for an internship?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",24,1,32.24961280437255,GradSchool
Suggestions for Ph.D. Programs with Heavy Biotech Industry Collaboration?,"Hello r/GradSchool,
I’m asking for some advice on programs to look into. I’m based in the US and looking for Ph.D. programs that collaborate heavily with the biotech industry. I have heard of doing internships with companies in the middle of a Ph.D., but I was wondering if there were any programs or schools where that is clearly a route to take. I know that there are big areas in Seattle or RTP in North Carolina, but any other suggestions? Or programs that would cater to this?

I can worry about admissions later (I will already have a M.S. in Chemical Engineering and a great GPA/some research output), but looking for other programs. Any advice or comments would be greatly appreciated. Thanks all!",1,1,32.26034197103922,GradSchool
Maybe the Impostor Syndrome has been lying....,"Based off what I see on this sub, it seems a many grad students, myself included, at some point in time feel we aren't as capable as others in our situation or that we have to live up to impossible standards. Recently my GA supervisor has trusted me to take on more important responsiblities that I didn't think I would be able to complete, but I did and she was very pleased with the work I turned in. My supervisor has been known to be very particular and perfectionist in the work she expects. It is a nice boost the know that my work is good enough on its own merits. Just wanted to share. Wishing you all find something that helps reaffirm that your doing better than you think, because you probably are.",1,17,32.314311878446624,GradSchool
How do we ask good questions in the scientific field?,"So like everyone working on their masters or PhD we're expected to read scientific papers, peer-reviewed etc. I read the abstract, then the results/discussion, then skim through the methods and I cannot for the life of me think of any questions to ask. I just absorb what I read like it's fact, I don't know if it's because this is my first semester but you can see my professor's excited face drop when I ask a question regarding the article. Like I cannot think of any questions to ask besides ones that I know are stupid like ""do you think heat could have affected the results?"" Like probably who cares right? It's in-vitro for a reason. So any thoughts?

Tldr: Does anyone have any good advice for formulating questions? I've tried writing down previous questions from my lab mates ask but... Idk...",4,6,32.31475169326144,GradSchool
Everyone who Is A Student MUST Read This [A Taught Provoking Short Story],,0,0,32.33020308215033,GradSchool
Impostor Syndrome - PhD programs without a Master's,"I am in one of the programs where you can apply and get in without a Master's and get it along the way. It fostered a ""I'm a PhD student but not really"" mentality for me.

Well, apparently I now  could theoretically apply for my Master's, making me more of a ""real"" PhD student. It's...kinda terrifying? I know impostor syndrome is big and I both feel and see it, but there's a difference between knowing you might get something someday and ""oh shit I could get this NOW""",4,2,32.33277252659478,GradSchool
Don't Ignore Your Health-A Cautionary Success Story,"I just wanted to share something useful with everyone here that basically has saved my sanity, and my life.

DO NOT IGNORE YOUR HEALTH

I am a stubborn person who tends to power through situations and not reach out. This is one of the worst habits to have in grad school.

Seriously. If you have access to insurance through your program, utilize it. See a primary care doctor, take preventative steps and monitor yourself. Don't be afraid to seek out counseling or psychiatric services either. Let me tell you what happened with me.

This last year has been excruciating and painful. Year 2 of a PhD after going straight from 4 years of undergrad and 2 years of a masters. Mental health and stress at the extremes and work productivity has suffered immensely. I saw the primary care doctor and I was walking around with near stroke level high blood pressure. So we got that taken care of. Also did blood work to rule out any other issues like diabetes, low hormones, etc. Thankfully, no other issues appeared.

I saw a psychiatrist and got started on meds which helped stabilize preexisting mental health conditions, depression and anxiety. Started seeing a counselor to help talk through the issues.

Lastly, just pay attention to your body. Despite all this, I still felt tired and burnt out all the time. I'd wake up tired and I finally asked about sleep issues. Turns out, I do have sleep apnea which can exacerbate mental health problems, high blood pressure and still leave you tired all the time.

Should be getting CPAP next week and having closure that there was a physiological component to my shitty time in grad school felt liberating. I would never have guessed I had apnea, probably had it for years. If I hadn't been into the doctors, I don't think I would make it another 4 years to graduation.

So don't ignore your health and take full advantage of services offered to you. 

tl:dr I was too stubborn to see a doctor for over a year and I had treatable conditions that would have made school so much more tolerable.",26,152,32.35527252659478,GradSchool
Tips for success in a foreign Master's program?,"Starting my master's degree next week in a different country. Those of you who were once in the same position, how did you deal with the challenges of being in a new environment (physically and academically)? Appreciate any stories or tips.",8,1,32.511904471039216,GradSchool
Best way to go about building a new body of literature?,My fieldwork (archaeology) location has changed quite suddenly due to a breakdown in relationship with first community. Need to build a new base of literature before end of November. Any tips?,1,1,32.75748317474292,GradSchool
Staying social in grad school?,What are your best recommendations for staying social in grad school and not totally alone?,8,1,32.824045674742926,GradSchool
"Told myself I wasn’t gonna drink this weekend, today grad school told me different","Cheers to the second self-doubt induced break down, three weeks into the semester!!🍻",3,13,32.858108174742924,GradSchool
How common is it for grad students to live with their parents?,"I live with my mother - in fact, she moved from Oregon to move into my apartment - and we split living cost pretty much 40/60. We pay rent and utility half-half, while she pays more for grocery because she is a full time employee that makes more money while I am on stipend that overall pays less. 

  
I am just curious, how common is it for grad students to move back in(or opposite case like me), and do you contribute to your family finance?",10,3,32.88835123029848,GradSchool
Having trouble adapting to my grad school field. Any tips for learning a mostly new subject?,"Hello!

I recently started a masters degree in evolutionary biology. My issue comes from the fact that I had previously been very entrenched in ecology as a field of focus. I understand that I am still pretty early on in my degree (only 3 weeks), and that the fields have a decent amount of bleed over, but I am really struggling with some of the basic aspects of the field.

Im no stranger to scientific papers or writing or the like, but I seriously had to spend 45 minutes on 3 paragraphs in the intro of a paper for a seminar course. And even then, I feel like I took a different understanding of the hypotheses presented in the paper. This feels so different than I am used to. I can read more advanced Ecology papers and feel like I have a solid understanding of the concepts presented within. But with most of the evolution focused papers it really takes me quite a while to understand the concepts presented.

I want to be able to navigate the field better and gain a more solid understanding of the concepts. How can I go about learning this field most effectively? I have a general idea for a project, but I feel that I know so little that I have a hard time coming up with a direction. I guess I'm not even sure what's possible? Should I be trying to understand all the basics and build up that way, or continue down a single path within the field and learn everything I can about that?

Self-study is how ive always operated, but throwing myself into a completely different field of focus has been more jarring than I anticipated. Id love some advice from more seasoned students such as yourself!",2,1,32.904161415483664,GradSchool
Articles to help friends and family be more supportive?,"Does anyone have any articles I can share with my friends and family about how to understand what I am going through as I write up my thesis? I am in the last 1.5 months before I defend and my roommates are trying to throw parties, my husband is pissed at me for telling them I don't want parties at the house right now, and like my friends keep trying to make plans with me. My husband also keeps giving me a hard time for not going to family events and not socializing. I need to write and they just don't understand this. I need to focus god damnit.",3,2,32.952564193261445,GradSchool
Imposter Syndrome,This is my second week of classes for my first year in my doctorate and I feel like an imposter. I don’t feel like I belong at all. I feel that my cohort has there shit together far better than me especially in discussion. The last two classes I just freezed or I say something incoherent. I feel that my assignment was below par compared to others. I don’t know if the anxiety or just that I really don’t belong. The only moment when I don’t feel like an imposter is when I have met with my advisor or in clinic team. When I’m in my classes...I just  feel like an idiot who has no idea what I’m doing and make fool of myself in classes... every-time I talk I just repeat what I say or have no semblance of sense. I feel like my cohort knows I don’t belong....,7,5,32.98578178585403,GradSchool
Caffeine fix... help,"This is kind of a random post, but I just started my PhD a few weeks ago and I have already found myself consuming a lot more caffeine than I normally do. I stayed away from caffeine for the most of my undergrad and masters since it seemed to give me anxiety. However, now I find myself NEEDING caffeine to stay awake long enough to get through my readings/assignments each week. I can't drink coffee because it makes me panic, but oddly enough I can drink ""bang"" energy drinks without getting absurd anxiety. (this is a legit problem for me) 

I was wondering what other grad students drink (other than coffee) to keep them awake? Any drinks with natural caffeine? 

&#x200B;

Any good alternatives to ""bang"" energy drinks or the celsius energy drinks? 

&#x200B;

any suggestions would be wonderful!!",5,2,33.00112900807626,GradSchool
Small anxiety attacks while in grad school,"I keep having these random bouts of fight or flight while I’m in my classes, before class starts, driving to school... I feel tingly and paranoid over nothing specific. All I know is I feel like I want to run away.... has anyone dealt with this before?? Please help...",7,1,33.0028535451133,GradSchool
Elsevier is investigating hundreds of peer reviewers who might be manipulating citations by inappropriately using the review process to promote their own work.,,30,248,33.027402156224404,GradSchool
Trouble explaining why grad school is difficult to friends and family,"So, I'm in my second year and I'm considering completely changing my dissertation project. I've been really stressed balancing a full course load, applying for the GRFP, and trying to reformat my project in a coherent enough way that I can pitch it to my advisor.

Explaining this to family, but ESPECIALLY friends, has been really draining. My friends in particular seem to think that my problems are like theirs were in undergrad. So usually more problems submitting paper work, or turning in assignments or exams. Trying to explain that I'm just exhausted from thinking and having a million spinning plates at once is almost too draining in its self. Or that I'm not just doing what professors tell me to do, but I'm trying to make a research project from scratch. They just.....don't seem to even be able to grasp the idea that that's what I'm doing in ""school"".

I feel like it's important to note that I come from a non-academic background. I'm the first person in my family to get any advanced degree outside of an undegraduate degree. Most of the people in my program come from families of academics. I wish I could get the deeper level of support and understanding from my family and friends that my peers seem to get.",5,5,33.05948548955774,GradSchool
How do you write a letter of recommendation from a supervisor you've barely worked with?,"I'm currently applying for a fellowship that requires letter of recommendation from the intended supervisor of the PhD thesis. However, this fellowship is for students that haven't started their PhD and in theory haven't worked with their PI. I'm wondering how one might go about writing a letter of rec like that.

Edit: Some additional information thanks to u/abb84 
I already have an advisor with a topic in mind already. I don't believe I'm able to change the scope of my topic once I've received the fellowship considering the PhD is in the UK (no rotations etc.). 
I've spoken to my advisor regarding this, and he told me to craft one myself and he'll sign off on it, thus my dilemma.",3,2,33.06778410066885,GradSchool
Social anxiety in grad school is making me really depressed and lonely,"I have just started my second (and final) year of my MSc program. Overall I love it. I have heard horror stories about people hating their department / advisor / lab / other students and it just being a very difficult environment. My experience is the exact opposite. The department is VERY accommodating. My advisor (and nearly all profs in the department) are amazing. Incredibly supportive environment. I love it and am very happy I chose to go here.

However, I have social anxiety. It's worse around people who are relatively outgoing, which is actually a lot of students. I made a couple of good acquaintances in one of my classes last year, but since we don't have class anymore I don't see them very often. We have an office and they don't come into the office very much either. 

I get my work done and am actually kind of ahead. It's stressful but not as stressful as I thought it would be (knock on wood lol). But I just can't bring myself to attend social events. And when someone says ""hi"" to me, I hesitate a bit thinking ""are they saying hi to me? Did they actually just say hi or am I imagining it?""

What I'm struggling with the most is that me and a few students (plus a couple of profs) are attending a destination conference. It's not too far away but we are still taking a plane there, staying in a hotel etc. My advisor says they like to make grad students share rooms since it's cheaper for the department. I'm obviously fine with this. So my advisor emailed one of the other students whose in the same year as me (she started the program with me) asking if she would like to share a room with me. This student has a desk a few down from me actually. I have her on social media and stuff too but am not close with her or anything. She said that she already made travel arrangements and she's staying in a room with one of the PhD students going. That's fine, I don't care and prefer a room to myself. BUT, I am just afraid I will be so alone even on this trip. Talking to nearly anyone is so hard for me. Fortunately I have a VERY supportive boyfriend whom I live with who is very comforting. But still, I just feel alone in everything here due to my social anxiety. 

I think I just needed to vent, but also anyone else experience this? How did you get through it?",13,24,33.07822391548366,GradSchool
Did you ever realize you just aren’t cut out for grad school?,"I’ve started my program, which is an intensive 1 year molecular bio program, and I’m feeling like I can’t keep up with everyone else. Is there a point where you have to realize it isn’t imposter syndrome and it’s just that you weren’t supposed to be here? Like your dreams are higher than your capabilities will ever be?",37,57,33.088142896965145,GradSchool
How do you do scientific illustrations?,"I'm a PhD student and I would say my biggest roadblock is making good scientific illustrations. I wanted to know how other people in grad school deal with this? Are you very proficient at Photoshop/Illustrator? Do you use a third-party and pay them? Or do you have support from your school? 

I try my best on Photoshop and Illustrator but it takes me a long time and it doesn't look as good as some of the ones I see in Nature and Science.",16,15,33.09095539696515,GradSchool
Graduate Nursing Student to Clinical v Counseling Psychology PhD Looking for a Path,"Hi everyone,

I'm currently a grad student in a Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner program. The further I go into my program the more I become interested in potentially doing a PhD in Clinical or Counseling Psychology after finishing my Masters. Does anyone have any tips for how I can make myself competitive as a nontraditional applicant?

I've taken/taking the following courses:

* Intro to Psych (undergrad - psych)
* Developmental Psych (undergrad - psych)
* Psychiatric Nursing (undergrad - nursing)
* Psychopharmacology (grad - nursing)
* Psychobiology (grad - nursing)
* Individual therapy (grad - nursing)
* Group therapy (grad - nursing)
* Clinical/Practicum (undergrad/grad - nursing)

Are there any other courses that I should take?

In the mean time I'm trying to find a RA position in my university. Would psychiatric nursing research translate well to a Clinical or Counseling PhD application? Has anyone taken a similar path?

Thank you!",0,2,33.11048085992811,GradSchool
Can you qualify for SSHRC or CIHR writing a Major Research Paper?,"I found a good health policy program. The funding itself is good, but I wanted to know if I qualified for doing non thesis research.",1,0,33.11520308215033,GradSchool
Forgot to change co-author's affiliation on poster,"So I've been thinking about a mistake I've made for the last few hours and felt I should share my mishap and my intended solution. I've reworked an old poster for the last few days and today I brought the file to the copy shop to have it printed. When rolling it together to put it into a poster tube, I compared my poster with those of my colleagues and noticed that I forgot to include the new affiliation of my former office mate and co-author. 

I'm a bit mad at myself that I didn't find such an obvious mistake earlier and I came up with following solution: I'm going to print out the name of my co-author's new affiliation and glue it onto the poster. Probably not the most elegant way, but still better to print out the whole poster anew, since that would be very expensive.

In hindsight I should have asked my colleagues and my advisor for feedback before I started printing. One possible explanation why I didn't, could be that my mental health is kind of in a strange spot right now, where I feel some heightened sense of (social) anxiety and I didn't want to bother anyone to come and have a look at my draft of the poster. I'm planning on asking my friends in grad school tomorrow what they would do, but I'd be too embarrassed to talk to my advisor about it.

I'm not quite sure what response to expect here, but I needed to get my thoughts out of my system and if anyone has more ideas, I'd be happy to hear them.

**TL;DR**: Forgot to change co-author's affiliation on poster, want to print it out and glue it on tomorrow",6,1,33.19131419326144,GradSchool
Advice on Long term Planning,"I graduated with a Masters in American History from a big state school in the South this past spring, and I’m trying to map out my next steps as best as I can. I want to go back for a PhD in 5 years (give or take), and I’ve been applying for jobs in university administration so I can stay close to the action and the resources that a university provides. I’ve looked at grad programs and found one that looks like a good fit with a lot of good scholarship coming out of it. My question is: should I seek employment at that university (or just state) in anticipation of applying there? I realize that the move would mean nothing if I didn’t get accepted, but I feel like the benefit of in-state rates and proximity would balance that out. What do you guys think?",0,0,33.221337341409594,GradSchool
Thinking about getting a Masters Degree in Europe--Does anyone have general advice on where to start?,"I'm 24 y/o from Colorado, USA.  I did my undergrad in Nebraska in Finance/International Business.  I'm looking to go back to school and have been giving grad school in Europe serious thought. I am aiming for the fall of 2020.  

I have a lot of existing student loans from my undergrad and I would love to take advantage of the cheap tuition in Europe compared to dropping another 20k on a degree here in the US.  I was looking specifically at German universities to get a masters in finance or international business.  

I have no idea where to start though, it seems like a gigantic task.  So I'm wondering if anyone has done something similar for their Masters and would have any advice on where I should start/what I should do to get the ball moving. I know there are specific requirements for Visas and the logistics for moving to a different country, but how do I go about applying/coordinating with a school that is thousands of miles away?",5,0,33.229369748817,GradSchool
Grad student culture is _____,"Fill in the blank with something humorous and/or real. For example:
-Grad student culture is not knowing where the hangover ends and the caffeine withdrawal begins.
-Grad student culture is buying a new eye cream with a color corrector so your dark circles don't show up as much.",20,10,33.246094285854035,GradSchool
Undergrad Distracted by Grad School Apps,"Hey everyone, senior in my undergrad that's applying to grad schools for next fall. I'm finding myself so distracted by doing anything related to grad schools before anything class-related. There's not much to do right now. I've got my recommendations in order, created most of my applications, and my programs are either rolling or don't have deadlines until around February.  


I think it's my form of ""senior-itis,"" but I'm curious if anyone else has/had similar feelings.",3,2,33.24828178585403,GradSchool
I will not be pursuing jobs in my field. Advice needed.,"I am starting my fourth year in a biological field PhD. I’ve passed my quals, I am a PhD candidate! However, and I knew this before even getting my bachelors, I am very interested in creative writing. During my time in grad school, that interest became a burgeoning skill in TV writing. TV writing and a PhD in biology have overlap pretty much nowhere. I’m at a point where there are some people I know who could help me get my first jobs in TV. However, because I am a 4th year, I am essentially in the middle of a fruitful project. I don’t really know what to do right now. My advisor knows I am no longer interested in academia, but figured I’ll do industry or something at least related. I don’t even know how or when to bring this up to her. I really like my advisor, she is a very nice person. I also do kind of want the PhD, but I also want to get my actual life going. Advise please, especially if you did a PhD and then your next job was in another field.",13,10,33.283374378446624,GradSchool
Where do you find cool PowerPoint templates?,I'm giving a talk at a really large conference in a few weeks and I want to have a cool PowerPoint template that isn't one of the pre-loaded themes on PowerPoint. One of my presentation pet peeves is a boring template so I'd love to hear your resources for cool talk templates. Cheers!,55,52,33.314346612200694,GradSchool
Has anyone ever flipped into a PhD from a MSc?,"So - I was accepted to an MSc program starting this fall that is three years long, one year of courses, one year of thesis and one year of an internship in the health care field that is highly competitive. 

When I met my supervisor I was awestruck, I had followed her career for several years and was so honoured that she would want me in her lab that I think I overlooked the general process of making sure the program was the right fit for me. 

I started classes this week and I'm disappointed because the field is supposed to be scientific, but there are no science courses to be found. I'm bored out of my mind, the classes suck and are not on topics I would ever be interested in if they were not required. My thesis project is also not on a topic I am hugely passionate about because my supervisor had a topic ready to go as part of a larger study when I'd contacted her (I agreed because yeah, awestruck). I'm not 100% sure I even want the internship because umm.. research grabbed my heart. 

There is a professor and researcher I've been working with at a different (more graduate focussed) university who is super cool and who I've had this conversation with. He taught me a course in which I had to design a study protocol as the final project. He recently told me that if I wanted to flip into a PhD program and carry out the study I actually designed myself, he would arrange it. 

So - if I flip I get a PhD, might be happier, do my own research that I'm passionate about, not be bored. If I don't, I lose my internship, might lose a 20k scholarship I received to do the MSc, and probably burn a bridge with this supervisor that I love. 

I want to know what you all think - would I drown by flipping? Would I hate myself for not getting the professional designation I've worked so hard for? Would my current supervisor hate me? Should I just take my time and finish my MSc - people keep telling me its a necessary evil, and other prof said he would also arrange after masters if I wanted? HELP.

tl;dr I don't know whether to flip to a PhD and lose my internship or finish my boring MSc first. Looking for advice/experiences!",3,5,33.33011050108958,GradSchool
Admitted suspiciously fast - red flag?,"I""m applying for an online masters degree. I filled out the first part of the application and submitted my resume and undergrad transcripts as I have about 4-5 years of work experience after undergrad and within a week I was told they have enough paperwork from me and will let me know about an admission decision soon. This morning I logged onto the online portal and it says my status is ""Admitted"". 

Is this suspicious? My dad says this is a red flag. I have not submitted GRE scores, essays, or letters of rec and when I asked when they were due they told me that the program and specialization I applied for does not need it.

&#x200B;

the program seems to be accredited and several of the staff there are known by my colleagues who have done PhD's so I'm not sure how to interpret what's going on or how to proceed.

&#x200B;

Any guidance would be super helpful",16,0,33.33240216775625,GradSchool
Reporting plagiarism in an already published article?,"I'm currently working on a manuscript and was doing some background reading to better explain the underlying process. I found a paper which also used the same process. Decent explanation, I then went and examined some of their linked references. 

Large portions of their work are word-for-word the same as their references. Even the brackets around the same words within the sentence. I've only looked at the introduction so far as they were working on a different problem them me. 

The field is analytical chemistry, and it's published in one of the upper tier journals in the field. My PI is currently off to a conference so I'm not able to ask what to do.

Advice?",7,9,33.40158040849699,GradSchool
Considering applying to Grad School for Fall 2020 but need a bit of convincing and reassuring,"I've enjoyed gaining my bachelor but I admit some classes/lectures along the way made me doubt my enjoyment of History. In some cases, I'm unsure if the theories and frameworks really connect with me beyond the most general way folks are taught history. I don't wish to be a teacher. A part of me would love to work at a museum though I'm sure even a Bachelor could guarantee me that (minus any job of actual responsibility). I guess I'm wondering what a Master's in History can guarantee you in the field of History for employment and etc. Is it worth gaining considering the likelihood of $$$$ in debt? Does it matter the status/ranking of the Grad School or would only your own performances/skillset matter overall?",7,1,33.66689290849699,GradSchool
Any schools in France that teach liberal arts (Philosophy) in English?,I want to try for PhD programs in Philosophy in France but I want to make sure they're taught in English as I don't know French. Any suggestions would be appreciated.,9,1,33.701372075163654,GradSchool
Another “Leaving Academia” post,"I just completed my MSc in neuroscience & genetics. I was originally considering continuing to a PHD, but I’m now entirely convinced that I need to get the fuck out and get a job in the real world. I still love science, but all my enthusiasm for research is gone. This programme has left me a jaded, depressed, anxious, and cynical version of myself. Doing it for another 4yrs is not worth it. The funny thing is, I did quite “well” in my programme, but I have absolutely 0 sense of achievement from it.

The lab has been easily the worst working environment I’ve ever experienced.  If it was a normal job, I would’ve walked out 3 weeks in. We shouldn’t have to put up with this just because “this is how academia is”.  I thought maybe I was unique in how much I hated it, but seeing all the posts about how “toxic” their lab environment is, I’m now convinced that we just stick around due to sheer inertia.

We don’t have to stick around. The only way the culture changes is if graduate students make it clear that this is not acceptable.",37,116,33.70803874183032,GradSchool
Environmental Engineering + Econometrics?,"I want to go to graduate school, though I am not completely sure what I would like to do. I studied mathematical finance and computer engineering in undergrad, and am now working at an investment firm. I love my job and everything that I get to do. Eventually I want to own my own firm! I love econometrics, computational finance, mathematical finance, etc but I've been reading some articles and books on environmental engineering. 

My question I guess, is if there are any programs that combine environmental engineering with economics, or econometrics?",22,6,33.787899852941436,GradSchool
What's the deal with LinkedIn?,"I finally succumbed to the pressure and made a linkedin. Are there any people or pages I should follow as a grad student (in STEM)? Why is one stupid website stressing me out so much? Any tips or tricks to managing this whole ""networking"" thing?",9,1,33.7929577233118,GradSchool
Do you enjoy school? Because I don't think I do and I'm worried grad school was a mistake.,"When you do classwork, and the problems are hard and you complete them, does that feel good to you? Not just in a ""oh good, I'm done, I dont have to keep doing this"" kind of way, but with a warm sense of satisfaction?

Do you legitimately look forward to going into work? Not just for reasons of social interaction and fun, but because you like your work?

Do you like your work, not in the sense that you like being good at something, or you like the prestige and encouragement, but because the work itself is legitimately enjoyable?

I don't feel any of these things. I started an MSc in physics this year because the prof I was doing undergrad research encouraged me to pursue it. I thought I was just burnt out and depressed at the end of undergrad, and didnt want to throw away a great opportunity on depressive thinking. 

I've started my masters and I'm struggling with the work. Not because I've forgotten so much of what I've learned, I have, but because the homework and learning process make me feel panicked and trapped. I have crying jags after three hours of working on an assignment because I feel broken by my lack of understanding, and have a stress response ingrained into my thinking about homework. I panic when people ask me questions I dont know the answer to. I feel like if I just pushed that to the side, and cried privately, and worked until I burnt out completely I could pass these courses and do just fine, but I think it would grind me down into even more of a nervous, depressive mess than I already am. I dont enjoy the work. It doesnt really interest me, I just feel like I need to know it.

So other people in STEM grad studies, when you say you enjoy your work, are you lying like I am? Is this just the process? Or do you really get actual enjoyment out of your studies, and I should consider dropping out because I don6t?",9,2,33.805423001089586,GradSchool
PhD Viva in 9 hours. Can't sleep. Panic.,"After 4 years I'm having my PhD viva in 9 hours and I am massively panicking for the last 2 weeks. 


Yes I have printed my thesis and read it. I've made a 20 minute presentation. But I'm not the brightest tool in the shed and I'm panicking about questions, examiners thoughts and feedback. Having an awful imposters syndrome (I really don't feel like I deserve a PhD).


Really not looking forward to it. Hope I can stop crying by the time my viva starts.

EDIT: ya girl's a doctor. Not gonna lie. It's a mildly unpleasant experience. But at some point... I almost forgot it's an exam. Just a long discussion.

EDIT 2: thanks for some of the feedback and comments during my sleepless night before.",51,166,33.81395309368217,GradSchool
"How should I deal with my ""friend""?",,1,1,33.87751790849699,GradSchool
LMU Munchen,"I want to apply for Master studies at this university but unfortunately my GPA is  something 3.0. I’m in my last year of studies and finally realized I actually have to work a little bit harder. I’ve always studied for a little time and managed to pass my courses with no much effort, basically I’ve been abusing my potential and now I realize I’ve harmed myself really bad. What do you suggest I do? Give up Master studies...build a stronger portfolio and try to find a job? 
I hate myself for making academic life hard for me. If there was somebody to slap me hard when I would have slacked off classes and studies. :(",1,2,33.88734429738588,GradSchool
"Deciding between an MFA in Creative Writing or Law School, about to graduate undergrad & could use some insight....","Just as the title says! I am currently a Senior, graduating in May 2020, at UNC Wilmington. I am teetering between law school and pursuing an MFA in creative writing. 

I’d hope to go to school closer to home (which means the NYC, NJ, Philly, or Maryland area); preferably NYC or NJ. 

Any program recommendations?

Anyone that has faced or is facing a similar dilemma?

Just looking for some outside information in this process, not sure where else to go! 

Thanks",3,0,33.95493688997847,GradSchool
"Full time job, part time student","Hi all! 

I am in my second semester as a grad student (online) and in the first month of my first full-time job. I am currently struggling with balancing work and school and was wondering if anyone has any advice for balancing a job and grad school? Thanks!",2,2,33.95558503812662,GradSchool
hey I need a HOOk,HI GUYS! SO I need a hook for a social media research paper about the influences of Instagram on mid-sized to plus-sized women (a size 10-30) so if you are one of those ladies or have any input on that? Would be greatly appreciated. Much love from a newb.,2,0,34.001279482571064,GradSchool
Setting Personal Goals For MSc Program,"Hey! New MSc student here!

My faculty advisor is really big into having his students set ""S.M.A.R.T."" goals for each semester so we can stay on track for graduating on time. I've set my research and personal goals for this semester. Now my advisor wants to know what my personal goals are for my degree as a whole so he can help me get ""what I want out of my degree""... and I am stuck. I have a few ideas in mind (listed below), but I not sure how concrete these are or how much he can actually help me achieve them.

* Learn to apply bioinformatic tools to research applications (I took one bioinformatics course in my undergrad and now it's the program I am registered in for Master's degree)
* Gain academic teaching experience (I have 1 TA position per year guaranteed for my degree, so I feel like this is too easy)
* Network with faculty in the field who may be potential PhD advisors for me (I would like to work in academia after I am done with school)

Has anyone else had to set some personal goals for your degree? What did they look like?",3,3,34.02718226034884,GradSchool
Is doing an MSc in experimental psych better than an MSc in psychological research? Which route would be better if I were to apply for a PhD afterwards?,"My goal is to either become a license therapist (if possible) after getting a masters or doing PhD and becoming a licensed therapist and doing some teaching at the same time. I was wondering which route is better? I’ve some exposure to research from undergrad where I created my own experiment and conducted it, which was very fun. I’ve no publications though.",0,1,34.03255263071921,GradSchool
I'm so tired,"So, this is basically a rant because today I've had 2 classes (of 7 hours in a row in total), three work meetings, chores, and homework. I had 15 minutes to have lunch and no breaks until, well, now. 

I'm not rich, I don't have a rich family, so I practically have supported myself throughout my undergrad by working 3-4 jobs at the same time, while barely making ends meet. I managed to graduate on time with 4.0 GPA and got into a very good grad programme in Political science. I still have to work 4 jobs to support myself while studying full time - sometimes having 80 h weeks.

Now, I know that top universities are difficult. I know that good degrees require a lot of work which I am happy to do. I know all of it. But I just wish sometimes they would realise that not all students are supported by someone else and some of us have to work and study at the same time. Sometimes we fuck up or not finish our work. And sometimes that's okay. I can't stress enough how important it is for universities to recognise that this is a reality and instead of organising sodding yoga weeks they could make room in their policies for students that support themselves.",5,4,34.0533628159044,GradSchool
OAT vs. GRE for admission to optometry school.,I have the option to take the GRE or the OAT for admission to optometry school. I have taken the PCAT and did average on it scoring a 400. Has anyone taken the GRE and the OAT? Which one is easier to tackle? I think I might take the OAT because it is similar to the PCAT. What do you guys think?,0,0,34.084635964052545,GradSchool
Experimental Psych v. Psych Research?,"Good afternoon Redditors,

I have a few questions regarding a Masters program in psychology. 

1) What is the difference between Experimental Psychology vs Psychology Research in regards to a Masters degree?

2) Which field is more competitive to get accepted into? Is a Masters in experimental psychology more difficult to get accepted into than psychological research?

3) What kind of jobs are expected from a graduate who has a masters in Experimental Psychology? What kind of jobs for Psychological Research?

4) Between the two programs, will a PhD need to be completed in order to get a decent paying job? 

Thank you to everyone in advance :)",7,0,34.1108165196081,GradSchool
How to organize for eventual comprehensive exam after 2+ semesters?,"After finishing the core courses, the program requires a comprehensive exam. I am currently taking 3 courses/semester and will finish the cores after 2 semesters. 

I am looking for advice on how to organize my notes. Everything from taking notes in class to physical organization. 

I have bought a file box/file folders and plan to put the notes there for now. I am dating the pages and putting the week #/topic at the top of the page.",2,1,34.13664985294144,GradSchool
"Fellow grad students, please help me make a decision. It's a pretty big one...","I've posted a couple of times on here about a not-so-great relationship with my advisor. The first one being that he is snarky and scoldy (deleted because I didn't want to risk the 0.1% of him seeing it). [The second one](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d1vq3i/unsent_letter_to_my_advisor_temp/) being that I feel underappreciated. [The third one](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/d2k8ar/i_dont_know_what_to_do_about_drama/) being that he is the reason for miscommunication.

&#x200B;

I feel like I do have some options.

1. I can continue my PhD under him and deal with his personality for a few more years
2. I can do an MS under him and switch to the other prof (pseudo co-advisor) for PhD

If I do an MS, I don't have to retake quals because I already passed last year. I don't have to take more courses because they're transferable. I have nothing to lose by getting an MS along my way, really, but the only difference is that I'll have a thesis and defend it. There's always the chance that the other prof isn't taking new students, though; I think I'm gonna have the discussion with him privately before seeking a new advisor for PhD, if that's what I end up going with.

&#x200B;

What do you think would be the best option for me? What is your experience? Have you ever switched, and why?",6,2,34.17399938997847,GradSchool
pls help,"Hi everyone, 

&#x200B;

So I'm looking to go to grad school next Fall. When is the latest that I can apply? 

&#x200B;

Thanks,

&#x200B;

Karl",3,0,34.190041056645136,GradSchool
Do you know how to improve your communication skills? I know.,"1. Do not perceive the reaction or anger of the interlocutor at your own expense, even if they seem to be angry with you. It's more about fear or discontent than about you personally. Take a deep breath and count to ten. Let it be time for your interlocutor to speak out before he can say what he really has in mind.

2. You do not have to know the answers to all the questions. It’s perfectly normal to say, “I don’t know.” If you want to know something more, say it, find and share the results. Or maybe you even decide to work together with your interlocutor to find the answer to his question.

3. Answer (facts and feelings) rather than react (only feelings): for example: “Tell me more about what worries you,” or: “I understand your discontent” instead of: “Listen, I'm just doing my job! "", Or:"" This is not my business! ""(This phrase will definitely cause even more irritation). Share responsibility for the outcome of any communication in which you take part, and understand that sometimes (or maybe even often), your personal reaction can cause all communication problems.

By the way, join new interesting subreddit: r/college_buzz",0,0,34.204392908496985,GradSchool
What are some things you wish you knew before applying to grad school?,"I'm in my senior year of undergrad trying to decide on which psych programs to pursue. I'm struggling to pin down what I'm looking for. December applications are really stressing me out, and it feels like it's right around the corner.",8,3,34.204473927015506,GradSchool
tips on how to not plagiarize thesis,does anyone have a good method to follow for not plagiarizing their own papers (eta publications) when writing their thesis. i can imagine myself getting frustrated as i start trying to do so. i've heard maybe rewrite as if you were explaining to someone in your lab. id appreciate any guidance.,8,1,34.229230871459954,GradSchool
Finding PhD schools/labs/advisors??,"I am a current undergrad starting my last year (4th year).  For the last year I've been working with a master's student and her advisor (whom I've had courses with) on her thesis, which is now transitioning into a paper she will submit for publication.

Anyway, I intend to apply to PhD programs this year, and I know that I want to work somewhere in the realm of plant biology/ecology, but I'm finding it incredibly difficult to narrow down professors/labs to apply to and contact, as I'm not sure how to know what aspect of this field I want to study.  My current work in the lab involves comparing wood anatomy of pygmy oaks with that of normal oaks, as well as some branch biomechanics (but we're mostly comparing g-fiber abundance and characteristics between the two growth forms).

&#x200B;

How can I determine what advisors and labs to contact and eventually apply to if I'm not even sure what sort of project I want to do?  I am interested in evolution and physiological ecology. Any advice? Especially plant biology is appreciated but any input is very welcome. TIA.

&#x200B;

TLDR: How can I find what schools and labs will be good to apply to when there's so many? Do I just look up random colleges and professors?

&#x200B;

Edit: Clarity and updated grammar",3,1,34.25678874183033,GradSchool
Mixed up the time for one of my 3-hour seminars and totally missed it.,:( :( :( :(,1,0,34.27291142701551,GradSchool
Subpar math skills- STEM PhD,I’m seriously considering a PhD in a STEM (not math) field. I am a little apprehensive that my subpar math skills may make the already rigorous PhD path that much harder. Anyone else in this boat too?,11,1,34.31493688997847,GradSchool
BA in Web Design and Development/Associates?,"Hello!

I have a Bachelors in Music, and I currently work for a university. I have started to work on some graphic design things and think I may be interested in pursuing a degree in web design. I've read that often people will get just an associates. However, since I am a university employee, my tuition is greatly discounted, so pursuing a Bachelors is a possibility for me. Trying to determine which would be more beneficial for me in the long run. Any former students or professors in this field, what is your perspective on this?

Thanks!",0,0,34.361094297385876,GradSchool
"In the absence of close, productive mentoring by a faculty member, how do you become your own mentor?","While I believe it is obviously necessary to have a supportive mentor during a research project, my project seems to be very independent and I've not been able to gather much helpful mentorship from my advisor on my current project. 

What steps can I take to become my own research mentor? I've been trying to read all the relevant papers and keep all the knowledge in my working memory to figure out the next step in my project but this has gone quite poorly. 

Is there some way that I can ""talk myself"" through the higher-level planning steps and effectively become my own research mentor? I have found that I talk to myself most efficiently using a journal so that would be a tool I'd be most comfortable making use of. 

For example, maybe I could simulate what a meeting with a good advisor might go like on the page itself by asking myself the same questions an advisor would. I will note that I am in a doctoral theoretical physics program doing research in AdS/CFT and my main frustration as of right now is with methodology: when there are two choices in how to compute something, which should I choose? How will I know if I am implementing this method correctly?

Any tips would be greatly appreciated!",30,146,34.391406797385876,GradSchool
Does it look bad to do your Undergrad and PhD at the same university?,"I’ve heard a lot of mixed information about the pros and cons of staying at the same institution for both your undergrad and grad school, mostly that it’s frowned upon as it doesn’t show growth as a researcher.  I’m currently in the last year of my undergrad, I completed my honours last year and  will continue to work on the same project this year as an RA. My undergrad supervisor recently offered me to stay and upgrade to my PhD at the same school. The project I was offered is really cool and involves a lot of collaboration with government researchers and a lot of field work. I really want to go for it but am worried I would be limiting myself because of what people have told me.  I’m also tempting to continue to work for the same supervisor as I have a learning disability.  My current supervisor is extremely accommodating and is very understanding that I work differently than other. This is a major pro for staying as I’ve had a lot of negative experience with people not understanding and treating me like I’m lesser than others.",11,10,34.433733186274765,GradSchool
Can i do phd in physics after MSc. In Mathematics?,,1,1,34.68501790849699,GradSchool
Do grad student need or have a portfolio?,"Hi everyone,

First, I just want to say that this is my first time posting here and I read the rule and I don't feel that this is against the rule. However, if some feel that this is not appropriate please let me know and I will delete this post.

When I was a graduate school (I did master and PhD, but I quit half way through my PhD), I really feel that I wanted my personal portfolio site that is not LinkedIn, ResearchGate (like [myname.example.com](https://myname.com) or something) that shows all my profiles, education, internship, work experience, research projects, papers and awards and such. And something that I can easily update. I asked a lot of my friends who are still in academia and found that most of them want a portfolio, but are too lazy to make or update them even when today we have Wix and others easy tools for it.

I'm wondering how many of you grad students have a portfolio to showcases all your works and if you happen to have one, why isn't things like LinkedIn or ResearchGate enough for you?

I'm asking this is because I recently left my job and thinking about going back to school, and I want to make one for my self while if there is enough people know feel the same I maybe able to enable a services that allow researchers to showcases that skills and research topics.

Thanks",4,1,34.71658040849699,GradSchool
How do you disrupt the negative thought cycles?,"Yes the meltdown came early this year. I’m in my final year of my masters and got one poor (c) grade on a homework and it spiraled it all out. I just need to be reminded that we all get those days when it feels like you’ll never finish the work you’ve started. 

It feels like every deadline is too soon, and I can’t keep up with any of the work. I feel like I work all day long and have accomplished nothing. I keep hitting dead ends with my data. I chose data then it isn’t appropriate for my thesis. Then it happens again. Then I can’t find the raw data from the government org that I need, despite the fact that it is available. Ah!

On top of all of that, I’m working for a professor who needs his hand held for every last thing. He’s new to the university and constantly needs me to explain the bureaucratic bulllahit to him, even though I know as little as he does. My other professor I ta for is completely unorganized and doesn’t respond to my emails in a timely manner. He wants me to manage his entire grading scheme and input for a 4x4 load even though no one ever taught the grad students how to do this, so I spend hours just learning how to work the grade program the univ uses, and again feel like I’ve accomplished nothing. 

And the stress is making it impossible
To sleep, so I’m exhausted and then my performance goes down even further. And the cycle continues. 

What does everyone else do to break the cyclical downward spirals? I know it happens quite often in my department and program but I rarely get good advice on how to help the process. I realize I just complained a lot but ultimately I need help organizing a self shut off switch for the negative thoughts.",29,71,34.789716982571065,GradSchool
I don’t know what to do about drama...,"I made a post yesterday. I will link it when I get the chance. I was very angry at my advisor as well as myself. Today I met with my co-advisor, or more accurately, the other prof I’m doing this project with. Will get to that.

Yesterday in my meeting with my advisor, he said “he hadn’t clicked ‘approve’ because he was hesitant due to your lack of production. He and I discussed this.” A while ago, my advisor said that the guy would be my co-advisor, so I believed him and updated my degree plan as such. Today when I met with my not-co-advisor he said that he never discussed with anyone about being my co-advisor so he was surprised to see the notification about my degree plan. He even said “your advisor was even the first to sign the petition, so I knew you weren’t at fault; it’s not your mistake, but your advisor’s mistake.” So he was basically drafted into being my co-advisor. There’s miscommunication #1.

I also expressed to him that I felt very unappreciated by my advisor about my tapeout. He had no idea of what happened in my meeting with him yesterday, it turns out. He even said that “that’s a discussion to have with him,” “I really value your hard work, but in academia the main seller is good quality results,” and “the only thing I discussed with him was the following. Your colleague is a Master’s student, so he is relieved of the kind of pressure you have. He doesn’t need to contribute or innovate to graduate. A requirement for PhD students is an innovation. One or two good ideas that is your signature work. What worried me was not that you weren’t contributing, but that you weren’t innovating. None of the other stuff.” There’s miscommunication #2.

Then we went on to talk about next steps and what is needed for the rest of the project.

I asked my fiancé what he thought and he said that my advisor was just being very dramatic yesterday. That may be the case, but something just isn’t right. I hear one thing from my advisor and another from the other prof. Maybe my advisor is twisting things and putting words in his mouth to get to me. But something definitely just isn’t right.",2,2,34.79749476034884,GradSchool
Quick question on letter of recommendation,"Hello, this is my first time ever asking for a letter of rec before, but i'm certain that I have 3 people I can ask. Is it weird to ask for a rec to be sent to multiple schools or is that dumb?",6,5,34.81861744553403,GradSchool
Lab rotation advice?,"Please help. I am a first-year grad student. I came in with a general direction of wanting to do immunology while gaining computational skills or bioinformatic skills a long the way.  Now I feel completely lost. It seems I have to pick and choose since not many immunology labs (like one only and I have not heard back if they'll take students) include those skills I want to learn. 

I want to be interested in the research,  and don't necessarily want to compromise that interest. I mean I'm going to be doing this for the next 5-7yrs of my life. I just want to put myself in a position to have bioinformatics skills as I see in the coming future those skills becoming very desirable for research in general. 

Man, I just want a job after all of this. How do I manage to keep myself interested in the research while pursuing the skills I want to learn?",3,1,34.84961281590439,GradSchool
Who would you ask to write your letters of recommendation when applying to Grad school if its been 7 years since you received your Bachelors?,This is the only thing thats holding me up from moving forward with applying.,9,1,34.906082723311805,GradSchool
Is there some rule of thumb knowing which types of programs will cost you money and which will be funded?,I'm not really sure how this works but it seems like it would be good to know as I think about going to grad school.,2,1,34.91027253812662,GradSchool
"for CV: what's the word for stuff I've ""published"" online that isin't publications","I have an online data set, and a few blogs though the conservation agency I worked with. I'd like to put them on my CV but it seems incorrect to call them publications. 

what would be a better heading? I'm drawing a total blank",3,1,34.9410827233118,GradSchool
Do I need to cite issue reports for environmental management?,"I'm turning in my first issue report for my environmental management class tomorrow and only just now considered that I may need to cite things. Prof didn't say anything at all about citing if we borrow phrases from the article we're discussing. Do I need to cite that somehow? I also looked up an endangered species via the national registry. Do I need to cite where I found it? How would I do that for an issue report? I don't think he'll nab us for plagiarism on something like this, but I just don't want to risk it.",4,1,34.95512207516366,GradSchool
Feeling frustrated (RANT),"Hi all,

I'm starting year 3 of my PhD and only a few pilot studies have been run in my lab due to moving to a new building and a bunch of things that go with that which I don't want to get into. Bottom line, our lab is suffering researchwise and it's not our fault. So, in the mean time to keep myself on track to graduating, I've been working with data and tissue collected at my PI's previous institution. I'm working on a prediss manuscript that has probably nothing to do with what my dissertation will really be, I'm running another project with tissue that also doesn't have much to do with dissertation stuff, and I'm helping with a third project that has a new research focus for our lab, etc. Where I'm getting frustrated is that I have to switch around on the literature I'm reading constantly with little overlap. I first started reading on a specific receptor subtype, then stress, then a vitamin, then neuro plasticity, and now back to stress. My dissertation won't involve any of those things (except the latter, maybe).

I feel frustrated because I'm having to switch around the literature I need to familiarize myself based on what's the most pressing thing that needs to get done (manuscript 1, manuscript 2, project 1, project 2, etc.). The saying ""jack of all trades, master of none"" really fits here. Is this normal? How am I supposed to do all that? I'm trying, but always feel like I'm coming up short. What I really want to do is become an expert on what my dissertation will involve. It's frustrating.

Thoughts?",5,2,35.039335038126616,GradSchool
Is my research advisor within their rights to demand that I drop out of extracurriculars and stop traveling on the weekends?,"I am in a masters with a research assistantship, and my advisor has told me that he won't provide funding for me next semester unless things change dramatically. He is upset that I enrolled in classes that he thinks are too challenging for me, and that I joined a student organization that does social events and open houses for our department, and that I was traveling last weekend. I responded with saying that I will focus more on research, and I realize that my performance has been off to a slow start (I'm new), but that I am determined to improve. Is it fair for him to demand that I drop out of my extracurriculars and not travel on weekends? He basically demanded that I do these things and he has sent a serious email saying that my future funding is not guaranteed anymore.",28,17,35.09041142701551,GradSchool
Crippling anxiety over asking for letters of recommendation,"This is half a rant, half a solicitation for advice/reassurance. I'm a second-year PhD student and I'm applying for a fairly large fellowship. It requires several letters of recommendation. Every time I need to ask a professor, even one I worked with for years, for a letter it makes me sick with anxiety. I feel so bad for burdening them, and I get so anxious about reaching out that I procrastinate, and procrastinate, and procrastinate....and then I feel worse because I am giving them less and less time. 

I'm going to ask the same people who wrote my grad school recommendations, but these are people who I haven't seen for 3-4 years now (people I worked with in undergrad). I also feel so bad (grateful, but bad) that they had to write all my grad school recommendations. They were all great about it but the professor I was working with at the time as a tech semi-jokingly complained about how much work it was, since I applied to 8 programs! I feel bad emailing these people and asking for ""just one more letter"" after they had to write me 8 letters two years ago! 

People, what do you do? what do I do? Does everyone get this nervous about asking? Do you think, for example, the professor I interned with four years ago will still be willing to write for me? Can someone just tell me it will be okay? :(

sincerely, 

socially-anxious grad student who just wants some government money  :/",8,8,35.09226327886736,GradSchool
Application Recommendation Tips?,"I've been out of school for \~5 years now, and I'm working on the application process to go back. I'm looking at MA in International Relations/a Masters in Public Policy/Development, and considering a JD as part of a dual degree program. One of the issues I'm facing is that I took undergrad courses so long ago that I don't feel that (a.) the professors will remember me and (b.) my work environment won't be conducive to providing strong recommendations either. I've worked three different jobs since graduating, almost all of them unrelated to my intended field of study. I'm currently splitting time between a full-time position at a reputable institution (doing non-academic work, however), and doing qualitative/quant research for an NGO. I'm fairly confident that I can get a solid recommendation letter from my research supervisor, and I've taken initiative in my own position (learning programming, re-orienting workflows and processes, creating data analysis capacity where there was previously none), but I'm nervous that lacking a scholarly recommendation will sink my app. My major GPA from undergrad was only \~3.33, and 1st pass on the GRE was V164Q153W4.5, so I'm nervous that competitive schools will look at my application and determine that I have no business studying there. I had medical conditions to contend with during undergrad, but it feels too little too late to mention it years later. FWIW I tried auditing a course in my intended study area at my institute but was kicked out by the professor after the class had too many registrants. Should I just keep trying to audit courses for the hope of an eventual letter of rec?",0,1,35.101395223311805,GradSchool
Stupid Question - Citing Articles in Different Languages,"Here is my stupid question of the day.  Has anyone ever translated (through Google or on their own) and cited work that was in a different language other than their own? Is there a proper way of doing this? 

I'm at a Canadian English-speaking university and while on vacation in Spain I picked up some great articles, books and resources regarding my profession. These resources are directly applicable to the course I am currently taking, however, they are in Spanish.",3,1,35.1351915196081,GradSchool
What do about my third letter of recommendation for graduate school?,"So, I am kind of in precarious position when it comes to my acquiring my third letter of recommendation (reference) for graduate school applications. I have my other two, and I am confident that they will give me strong letter of recommendations. 

However, in regards to my third one, I do have a professor that did say they would do it for me, but I feel it will not be strong because they said they can't say much about me, told me that applying to the field that I want to go into is almost impossible to get into. They did agree to write me one after seeing my transcript and  having me write a draft letter of recommendation. I get an uncertain feeling about this Professor, because his emails are largely blunt and quite informal, and he didn't reply to having a meeting with me until after a follow up email, which he proceeded to tell me to see him during his office hours. I am making a 4 hr trip (there and back) to see him. I am really hoping it will end up being positive  , as I directly asked him if he could write a strong letter of recommendation, and he said yes.

I do have two other options for professors to write my third one. One of them I am meeting on Thursday, which I hope goes really well because I really enjoyed his classes and he has been quite nice to me over email. I have not asked him to write a letter of recommendation yet, but I plan on doing so when we talk after reminding him who I am and the work I have done.

Lastly, the last professor seemed promising at the beginning, even looking forward to meeting with me, but has been flaky with this email ever since. Thus, I am not feeling too good about acquiring one from him at this moment. All the professors I have asked to write me a letter of recommendation have either declined politely or have not replied to my emails. 

Does anyone have any advice to ensure I get the last letter of recommendation?",5,3,35.204786427015506,GradSchool
Subject GRE Breaks,I'm slated to take the Physics GRE this saturday. Does the ETS allow you to leave to use the restroom at all during the exam?,4,0,35.22874476034884,GradSchool
Tips on how to focus on writing?,"I'm near the end of my PhD and I have 2-3 manuscripts to write and my thesis chapters. I do have one accepted publication which took me forever to write. I find myself using any excuse to not write and when I do force myself I end up just staring at my computer, doubting everything I know about my projects. 

Any tips on how to overcome this and get my writing done?",34,98,35.25837438997847,GradSchool
Single Author Publications?,"Perhaps field specific, but I was curious whether other (any) grad students have experience with single-author publications? What is your field? How was your experience? I know that some fields make it almost impossible to do this, but others may *only* feature single authorship. 

&#x200B;

I would like to be proficient enough to do so, and imagine it containing many advantages over massive by-lines that I have been dealing with that lead to slow, constantly and annoyingly shifting paper content. 

&#x200B;

Thanks!",4,3,35.27526096405255,GradSchool
Missing required courses question,"Hi,

Without going to into detail, I am a currently serving Peace Corps volunteer hoping to apply to several MA / MS programs in International relations.

&#x200B;

The issue is that during undergrad the economics courses I took are not considered micro or macro economics, and the majority of the programs I want to apply for require one or both of these courses in order to be accepted.

&#x200B;

My question is that is it generally acceptable to apply without the courses, and to either take them simultaneously with normal masters courses, to try to and earn the credits before applying (online or community college), or to apply despite lacking the courses and see what the program committee says?",2,1,35.28924244553403,GradSchool
"Profs gave us the worst ""pep"" talk I have ever heard and I feel very down about the future now.","Hey all, 

So I've just started my second year of my research Master's and we had our start of year meeting during which our profs introduced the year's curriculum etc. Several of us are planning on Ph.Ds for next year and the profs spontaneously launched into a joint digression about how hard it is to get into a Ph.D. How little funding there is and their own powerlessness when it comes to deciding who gets in or not, inc. examples of students they would have gladly taken on but the university veto'ed and so on.

I am one of those students who intends to go for a Ph.D. and as a mature student, with very small means, and no hope for bursaries because of my age. I'm in France, so the cost is at least not as bad as it would be elsewhere but  I was hoping for funded Ph.D. with teaching hours so I can make enough to live on at least. Another thing they mentioned was that the minimum average required to be considered was 14. I checked my average last year and I was at 14.388. I am fairly sure I can do better this year as I changed track to something I am better at but still... that's way too close. 

They had someone there to talk to us about the national exam to become teachers, which is a valid option which several classmates are aiming for, but the implication throughout was that most of us would leave research and go on to teach High School. I don't have a plan B, this was my plan B actually. I have worked in corporate and it pretty much destroyed me. I'm just not the kind of person who can function in that kind of mindset. I have also taught High School, and though I didn't completely hate it, I definitely do not have the calling. I really want to go into research and am willing to teach at the University level as well. I could possibly work fulltime in something soul crushing and fund my Ph.D. myself, but it would then take me twice as long to finish my Ph.D. and by then I'll be over 40 and I was hoping to begin my ""real life"" before then, you know? I'm already at that age where my friends have careers and families, some are even already planning for retirement! And I am back living with my parents and going to school with people ten years younger than me... it's... difficult.

I intend to apply and do my best this year, I was always going to anyway, but I am a realist and I know the odds aren't great. Add to that my chronic depression, and I am finding myself in a struggle to find the motivation to get started on figuring out my subject for my dissertation for this year, let alone a thesis. Starting the year depressed is... not ideal... and I know I am not the only one who left the meeting completely demoralized. Several of the cohort have already said they're done with academia and will finish the master as they were already halfway through but that was it for them. I don't feel I have that option at this point. I don't have anything else I want to do. 

Is this a common thing to do in Grad School? Giving the students the world's most depressing ""welcome back to school"" speech? I get not wanting to give students a rosy view of things but... maybe balance it out?",16,3,35.36078179738588,GradSchool
"Studying at Monash University, but having doubts",So I have just started my Master's in Advanced Engineering at Monash University in Melbourne. It's a Group of 8 University and the top ranked University in Australia. But I wanna know if graduating from here will be credible elsewhere in the world? Like Europe or US?,5,0,35.36288827886736,GradSchool
Chronic illness - reaching out to other grad students,"Hey all, I created a discord to connect with other grad students living with chronic illness. [https://discord.gg/22puHAW](https://discord.gg/22puHAW) I think it's important for both grad students AND people living with chronic illness to share coping mechanisms and support one another, so hopefully some people are interested in joining.",0,8,35.3686290196081,GradSchool
Transitioning from Academic Science (biostatistics) to Software Engineering?,,0,3,35.38115216775625,GradSchool
What do people mean when they say impostor syndrome?,"Whenever someone talks about impostor syndrome I don't really know what they mean.

Say you have severe anxiety about your competence, but you almost always deliver work on time and to a good quality. Do you still call that impostor syndrome? Or is impostor syndrome referring to anxiety *and* the fact that you are struggling to meet your advisor's demands and to not disappoint them, to learn quickly, and to be productive?

Usually when I think of impostor syndrome I think of the former case where people have self doubts but are overachievers who make their advisor proud. But I'm fitting more into the second category right now so I am just wondering if I am really incompetent.",6,2,35.42596698257106,GradSchool
Advice on getting started on a literature review?,"I need to start working on mine for my thesis soon, and I feel overwhelmed and lost on how to start, so I just keep putting it off. I was kinda switched in to a thesis master's from a non-thesis master's without me fully understanding what it entailed, and now I feel like I am super behind. I have to be able to graduate by next spring, because I am going to medical school next fall, and I don't want to have to give up my spot at the school. How did you all get started on your lit reviews? How did you overcome this huge barrier in writing your very first one? I appreciate any and all advice because I am at such a loss. Thanks!",3,2,35.44607114923773,GradSchool
Post graduation slump!?!,Hey everyone I’ve finished my MA (year long course based) this August and now I feel worse than when I was studying for my comprehensive exams. I hate what I’m doing with my life and I feel like a loser who thinks being an electrician would’ve been better but I was too much of a coward. I don’t have too many friends and I didn’t like the people in my cohort too much(little in common/upper middle class pricks). I think I should’ve just left after undergrad but now I feel like I’m hopelessly lost and worn out. I didn’t think grad school would have this effect on me and even though I got into a good MPA program with coop I don’t have the mental will or the money to do it. Can anyone here relate or tell me about their experience? It’d be greatly appreciated. I feel like I’m in a real slump. Also I’d appreciate any advice on how to get out of this slump and start feeling like myself again.,3,2,35.72641837145995,GradSchool
No Quant skills - M.A. in Stat vs. M.A. in Quantitative for Social Sci,"Hi,  
I am currently in a MA clinical psych program at Columbia, but I've always wanted to become a data scientist, except I was always scared that I wouldn't make it b/c of the quant focus. After taking a beginner python online course, I enjoyed the problem solving and logic aspect, which made me consider data science. But because I do not much experience in quant, I fear that when the quant becomes more difficult, I won't be able to manage?

I have no quant skills, and it seems the MA in Stats at Columbia would require me to take up to linear algebra and some programming courses before I apply. This means I would have to spend one year taking undergrad math classes (starting from Calc I, II, III and linear algebra) at a college.

Or should I just apply for Columbia's Quantitative for Social Science program this coming application season, because they require only a little bit of quant background experience. Just enough to show that I can handle quant related work. Under my clinical psych program, I am currently taking two quant courses: Statistical Inference and Data Analysis in R.

Advice much appreciated.  
Thank you.",1,1,35.84041142701551,GradSchool
2nd Masters?,"I have an MS in Human Relations and Organizational Development with a Leadership certificate. Would it be pointless to earn an MBA? Tuition is free (employer covers 100% including books), so what would you do? Get the MBA or remain content with one graduate degree. Will it look pointless on a resume, indecisive, overachiever or well qualified if I do pursue the MBA? I also have certificate options for the MBA such as Supply Chain Management or Advanced Management.",4,1,35.859404482571065,GradSchool
Non-GPA ways to get into grad school.,"Long story short I got out of an abusive relationship, was raped, battled depression and PTSD and am graduating undergrad in psychology!!! Wooo! Unfortunately, I don't have the best GPA (sitting pretty at 2.6ish, although last semester I got a 4.0). I have some field experience, but no lab. I want to get a Master's in counseling and work with sexual assault survivors like myself. 

Would getting a few years of work experience help? I know my GPA isn't great, but I fought and fought and fought to graduate. Most people in my situation wouldn't have even made it out alive, let alone got a degree. Could all that determination account for anything?

Sorry if this is a bit rambling, I've just been bothered for a few days about this.",6,4,35.8664878159044,GradSchool
How to leave a fully-funded PhD program gracefully?,"I'm a first-year PhD student, hopefully not for much longer, and I am seeking advice about how to leave my PhD gracefully. I have been in the program since July and after some real introspection as of late, I've realized how much I despise (to a very surprising degree) not only the culture of academia, but also the material I am studying. It's gotten to the point where every morning when I wake up to go to school, I honestly wish I hadn't woken up at all so I didn't have to go back to what has become my personal, unending hell. I have ignored my gut feeling on many other occasions but given that this is a 6+ year commitment or more and I already hate it after a few months, it just isn't justifiable to stay and frankly I would quit tomorrow if it weren't for financial reasons (I am actively looking for jobs and applying for every possible decently paying job I am qualified for). In the interim, I am going to classes, participating as normal, and I start a research rotation on Monday (I am debating whether I should tell my PI-to-be that I am leaving so I don't waste her time). My mental health is at its absolute worst and will remain that way until I leave the school. I have a test on Friday that I can't even be motivated to pull myself out of depression enough to effectively study for, and I deeply regret ever coming to this school. So the big question is how do I tell my program director this in a way that is not as offensive? Will I have to pay all of my stipend money back if I quit midsemester? Should I give up on even going to class? So many questions and yet I feel like I am at a loss. Thanks in advanced.",4,9,35.87662670479329,GradSchool
Fieldwork and Teaching Conflicts,"Hello everyone.

Recently I obtained a field permit to go out of state for fieldwork. Unfortunately, during the Permit's available time windows for field access, I will be teaching classes. I will need \~ 1 week to conduct my field study, but I am uncertain if I can take a week off from my teaching duties to conduct the work. 

How could I go about conducting fieldwork while having a teaching responsibility? Is it okay to have your teaching shifts covered? Should I just postpone the field study until a later date?",2,1,35.94684661220069,GradSchool
Appreciation of grad school benefits,"I rant about grad school often, and frequently moan about my measly stipend, but I have to say, thanks to GA insurance provided through my program, this is the first time in my life I haven't had to financially worry about medical problems. My school has a great health center and a great medical school, and our insurance is good. In the past 3 months, I have had a series of tests, ultrasounds, etc that in the past have cost me over $3000. I've paid $108 for everything. So maybe the stipend isn't the best, but I think my medical freedom is making up for it.

End rant.",14,19,36.00658040849699,GradSchool
Seeking Application Advice for Chemistry Graduate School,,0,0,36.01176559368218,GradSchool
TL; DR: You matter. Don’t let the imposter syndrome get you down. ❤️,"Wanted to share a musing I had today. Imposter syndrome gets talked about a lot in grad school, but no matter how many times people try to reassure me that (a) everyone feels it and (b) the people here deserve to be here, I don't feel all that reassured.

But it occurred to me today while talking with a friend that I've been/wanted to be a writer since I was 9 years old. I don't think anyone who knew me as a kid is surprised that I wound up in grad school for Writing Studies. I've literally been working towards this for most of my life. so why would I feel unworthy of this stop on that path? 

I guess what I'm trying to say is: if you can hardly make heads or tails of what you're learning, if you don't feel like you have a valuable contribution to make, you still bring something important to your field. You matter. You belong.",47,268,36.020434575163655,GradSchool
"""If you do not get a Graduate Assistantship or Fellowship, can you finance your education?""","Has anyone answered ""yes"" and still received funding? Are schools less likely to accept you if they can't offer you funding and you've answered ""no"" to this question during the application process? Honestly it's such a ridiculous question to me given the cost of tuition in any U.S. program, and that people who can afford to pay fir a graduate degree without incurring massive debt probably aren't applying for assistance! A bit of a rant but looking for some input on whether there's a strategically better response to give.",5,3,36.02661513071921,GradSchool
Thinking about quitting Grad School,"I'm in a Chemistry Ph.D. program going about two years in and I'm thinking about quitting my Ph.D.  I just don't think I have it in me anymore.  Its so much work day in and day out and on weekends and nights.  Although I came into grad school loving synthesizing molecules and reading about medicinal chemistry, the work of grad school has made me despise it completely.  I really don't have it in me to keep working on something that I hate so much.  I still have a lot ahead of my too, such as my qualifying exams and needing to write a dissertation at the end of all of this.

Truth is, I got offered a $75,000/yr job in a low cost of living city recently and I'm thinking about taking it.  That's one of the things that is causing me to want to leave the poverty, indentured servitude of grad school.  The issue I'm having though is, even though I hate it, I don't want to run away from grad school just because it is hard and I don't like it.  Some part of me just wants to see it through so that I can get to the other side and reap the benefits of having a Ph.D.  My fear is that I take this job now, but in the future I have nowhere to turn to if the market dries up and chemical companies will only hire people with advanced degrees.  But I really just want to start making some money and start my life somewhere -- meet someone, raise a family, explore other interests, etc.  Grad school really puts the brakes on being able to act like an adult in adulthood (I'm 30).

Should I stick it out for another 3 years so that I can say that I have an advanced degree?  That's really the only thing I'd be doing it for... the potential opportunities that lie in the future if I were to have a doctorates.",8,5,36.05145309368218,GradSchool
Tips for all occasions! What about you?,"**Health:**

1. Drink plenty of water.

2. Sleep - 7-8 hours.

3. Eat more foods of plant origin and eat less food that is produced in factories.

4. Play more games.

5. Read more books.

**About personality:**

1. Do not compare your life with the life of others. You have no idea what they have experienced and do not know their whole path.

2. Do not hold negative thoughts or things that you cannot control. Instead, put your energy into positive of the present.

3. No more than just doing it. Know your limits.

4. Do not judge yourself too harshly.

5. Do not waste your precious energy on gossip.

By the way, join new interesting subreddit: r/college_buzz/",0,0,36.0663952233118,GradSchool
"Feeling alienated towards my advisor (and my project), who is supposed to be a mentor but does not feel so.","I am a second year Ph.D. student in bioinformatics. I have been making some good progress on a research project. Every time I meet with my advisor, he doesn't focus on the progress or my ideas to make our method more useful for the scientific community. All he says is ""let's get this published ASAP"". 

I found that pressure to publish does not contribute to my motivation at all. The discussion of science does. As a result, I don't like my work or my mentor as much as I used to. I let go of an opportunity to go to a better program with diverse focus just to be able to work on this project (I thought this was exactly what I wanted to do) but now I wish I was just focused on finding a good mentor and an active research environment rather than picking a project.   


Does anyone feel the same? What can I do to get motivated to do science again?   
I looked into changing advisors (second year is kind of late but not \*too\* late) but being in a small department makes things kind of tough. Trying to explore that, though.",13,6,36.112691519608106,GradSchool
Unsent letter to my advisor (temp),"Dearest advisor,

&#x200B;

I made that tapeout. That was MY tapeout. My colleague relaid out some things to make it look a bit nicer, but in the end, that was MY tapeout. I hashed out all those DRC errors. I hashed out all those antenna errors. I ran all those LVS checks. He did most of the rest of the checks, and because he already had it up, I told him he should go ahead and submit it while it's there. It's more efficient for two people to work on corrections than one. And whom do you give the credit to? Him, of course. ""He salvaged the tapeout. It got rejected the first time."" I know that. Nevermind the fact that we were hashing it out together at midnight. ""Why do we see him? Why do we talk to him?"" I always come back in the evenings...... Just because I haven't communicated every single detail doesn't mean I didn't do anything. But you know what? I'm not here to please you. I've become numb.

&#x200B;

I just don't know how to show you that I've been working. I've been trying. I've been working to meet your expectations because you know better than I what constitutes as paperworthy work. But nothing I do is enough for you. Nothing I ever do is adequate enough. I understand I haven't been taking initiative as much as I should've, but I don't think it's fair to take that one thing to evaluate me as a whole.

&#x200B;

I'm not going to switch advisors because I'd be just back to Square 1 and at this point, I'm far too invested in my research. However, I will keep pushing through until I'm done with you. And when I am, well, I am sure you will be happy to never hear from me again.

&#x200B;

Sincerely,

C",15,5,36.15020309368217,GradSchool
Tips for submitting an abstract for a poster presentation at a conference?,"Hey there, first time poster, apologies if this isn’t in the right place. 

I am in my second year of grad school (going for my MPH) and currently working full time. I am very interested in women’s health, and one of my colleagues also shares that passion. We found out that there’s a nearby conference later this year about women’s health, and that they’re accepting abstracts for a poster presentation. We decided we might try submitting something together about how our work in education empowers women and girls, and how that improves health equity in our county.

The only issue is that I haven’t submitted an abstract to a conference before. Ive looked at a couple of resources online, but I guess I’m feeling a little nervous about writing something that’s competitive/succinct enough to be accepted. 

Those who have submitted abstracts before, do you have any tips that you could share? What types of information did you include to make your abstract stand out from other submissions?",3,1,36.15491374183032,GradSchool
"I have seen a lot of questions regarding ""how to choose an advisor..."" This document does a pretty great job explaining what to look for and how to frame the questions, whether you are thinking about applying or already accepted and looking for a lab. (Credit: Andrew Kuz, Get-Advisor.PDF)",,1,45,36.16890679738588,GradSchool
* Chuckle * I am in danger,"[Feeling burned out at work? Here’s how you can take back your life.](https://www.vox.com/the-highlight/2019/8/30/20836366/work-stress-how-to-talk-to-boss-millennial-burnout?fbclid=IwAR25tjFnybHNaqoFVpiK9sftMq8oUKQUYZPXphfcbJ_hY241vOXyDhFIF_c)

* You dread going to work in the morning.
* You show up late or find reasons to leave early.
* You feel bored or don’t want to engage with the work when you’re there.
* You’re complaining about work a lot (even though you’re not typically a complainer).
* The first thing you do in the morning and the last thing you do before you fall asleep at night is check your work email.
* You plan all your vacations around work (e.g., not traveling too far from work in case they suddenly need you).
* You’re having frequent work dreams and nightmares.",1,20,36.18749476034884,GradSchool
Should I retake the GRE,"I’m an English and American Lit MA student currently applying to English Ph.D. programs. I took the GRE two years ago while applying to MA programs and I did alright but not great (163 verbal, 149 quantitative, and 3.5 writing).  It did me fine enough to get into NYU for my MA but I wasn’t super happy with my scores so I registered to take it again for PhD apps. Except I’ve been working so hard on my thesis that I haven’t been able to study as much as I would have liked for the GRE. I wouldn’t be taking it until November, but the semester is only going to get crazier so I don’t expect I’ll have a ton of time to prepare in the next couple of months. If I am not confident I’ll be able to do better than last time should I still take it and see how I do or do you suggest not taking it again?",3,0,36.22980957516366,GradSchool
"Literally everytime someone asks me what I'm planning on doing with my master's, I have no answer.",Is this normal? I stumble at what to say whenever someone asks me this question.,17,22,36.266279482571065,GradSchool
I just got my PhD in neuroscience and made this little video documenting my dissertation writing and defense journey in case any are interested! Cheers!,,37,375,36.26887207516366,GradSchool
MBA If I Have A MPA? Or Just Go For A MSF?," 

Hello all,

I will be earning my MPA this fall, I have had several internships relating to the non-profits and governmental organizations. My track is international and comparative public administration. I have come to the conclusion, in order to meet my career prospects ( or even close to them), a second degree relating to business would help me achieve them and diversify my skills. I have an interest in international economic development, and I would like to work in the policy aspect. Should I pursue an MBA if I have an MPA? A lot of material from the MPA intersects with an MBA, so I am wondering whether I should pursue a degree in finance instead.

PS After speaking with numerous people who work in international development (ID), it may take some time to work after graduation without the proper education ( in finance related degree).",0,2,36.31374476034884,GradSchool
How do you know if you're good enough to be successful in grad school?,"I'm generally bad at school and I'm really nervous to take such a huge risk when I'd be paying out of pocket and likely going into debt for a degree that I might not even be able to finish, let alone get a job with. 

I struggled with science and math classes in undergrad, so I got an art degree. I failed math 990 and took 1010 twice before finally passing with a C the third time. I had a 3.5 GPA. I had undiagnosed ADHD which may have contributed but even after being medicated I feel like I still struggle a lot with math and writing.

I want to go into applied psychology. I really love the field; it's my dream job. But based on past experience in undergrad, and knowing how I function on a daily basis, I just don't think I'd be successful in grad school and I feel like I'd just be throwing tons of money at an inevitable failure. I have a strong work ethic, but that only gets you so far. Strong work ethic just wasn't enough to get an undergrad in science. 

This is especially stressful considering with an art degree, I'd likely have low income jobs for the rest of my career. The financial risk would take an extremely long time to recover from if I end up failing. 

I have enough work experience in the field that I'm not too concerned about getting into grad school, just being able to finish it. 

Is there some test or activity you could do to give you a better idea if you have what it takes? On the GRE I got 155 quant and 160 verbal, but I know those aren't great predictors of success. Any information would be helpful. 

Thanks for your time",12,7,36.329786427015506,GradSchool
Cronbach’s Alpha minimum sample size?,"Hello everyone. I hope this is the right place to post. I’m just starting out in research and am in the area of Language Education. My colleague and I are interested in using a questionnaire (5-point Likert scale) for data collection. Our sample size is 28. I know that Cronbach’s alpha is usually used to test the validity of questionnaires, but in all of the papers I have read where CA has been used, the sample sizes are n>100. I have also been told that Cronbach’s is not used for small sample sizes such as mine. 

My question is this: is there a minimum sample size for Cronbach’s alpha?

Do you have any suggestions for my colleague and I? 

Thank you all in advance. 

Ps: Please be kind as we are teachers embarking on action research, and are newbies in research.",6,2,36.36926559368218,GradSchool
Social Requirements?,"TL;DR: I'm 36, married, and introvert.

I'm going into my second year of a PhD program, and I've found myself  being subjected to numerous social things that I feel obligated to contend with, primarily due to social pressure - club meetings, happy hours, BBQs, etc.  Long story short, I'm older, and would rather spend my time at home with a video game than basically any of the people in my department, save very few (who I have no problem hanging out with outside of the academic setting).  Does anyone else deal with this?  Does the guilt get to you?",48,105,36.39785355664514,GradSchool
How do you deal with Writer's Block in a time crunch?,"Typically I don't wait until the last minute, but life got in the way. I work full time and sometimes it's not feasible for me to finish things without a last minute time crunch. 

However, I am being crushed right now with writer's block. Typically I love writing, but this paper has been a struggle. 

Any tips or go to tricks you use when you feel stuck? My normal, ""take a break, read a little, drink some tea, or switch tasks for a short period of time"" routine is not working for me.",6,7,36.49924244553403,GradSchool
To what extent did your supervisor help you write your thesis?,Edit: I know a supervisor isn't supposed to write someone's thesis.,14,7,36.61595540849699,GradSchool
Where to look for 1-2 years of Psych/Neurosci research experience before grad school?,"I'm going to be a Senior next year at a top 30 university in California and I'm majoring in Psychology, but I'm aiming for a PhD in either Neuroscience or Psychology with a specialization in Neuroscience.

I've had a rough time getting to where I am - I graduated high school with a shit GPA and completely changed majors from EE to Psych my first quarter at university. I transferred out to a community college and then got into the university I'm at now, where I've been able to maintain a 4.0. My problem is that due to transferring so many times, I haven't had the time or qualifications to obtain any research experience or any other activities outside of taking classes and studying.

Next year will be my first time getting lab experience - I'm working under a Neuroscience professor in her lab, focusing on fMRI research and it's uses and then transitioning into visual neuro research. Personally, I wish to study the underlying neurological causes and possible treatments for depression and anxiety, as I've been a victim of these disorders before so I want to help find a solution.

My question is - what do I do after this? I want to get 1-2 years of research experience in this field as it'll give me time to study for my GRE and boost my application for grad school. The problem is that I have no idea where to begin looking for these types of positions, as a lab tech, research assistant, or anything like that. Let me know what you guys think! Thanks in advance.",10,1,36.684369760348844,GradSchool
Older prof as advisor vs newer prof as advisor?,"From your experiences, what are you opinions on having more established professors as advisors versus having newer assistant professors as advisors? I know it varies by person, but I'd like to hear people's thoughts!",5,4,36.86234429738588,GradSchool
Have to defend my original research proposal in about a week. Procrastinating out of fear and exhaustion. Please help.,"I've started at this thing for almost a year now. I've turned the document in and, even though I'm trying not to look at it, all I can think of are the little things. The 1.5 hours of questioning after my presentation makes me want to (and has made me) vomit. I've tried sleeping, meditation, anti anxiety meds, nothing stops the over thinking. Any words of advice?",5,3,36.871233186274765,GradSchool
Is there a resource website or organization for disabled graduate students facing discrimination?,"I was wondering is there any kind of online resource, maybe a website, a nonprofit legal help center, or some organization that is focused on issues facing graduate students with disabilities? Particularly those of us confronted with discrimination?

First time poster here. Thanks very much for your insights.",8,1,36.9217540196081,GradSchool
Reading,"I am in my fourth semester of my grad program. I am completing a double program. My grades have been good so far but one of the things that I have always struggled with is the 200-300 (sometimes 500+) pages of reading every week in addition to scholarly journal readings. One of my professors said that we will need to perfect our ""grad student reading"" skills for their class. He suggested that ""grad student reading"" means skimming. So, how do you handle massive reading loads? Do you actually just skim everything? I have always read everything I could and just dropped the rest...",10,4,36.964983186274765,GradSchool
"First year MA student, doubting whether grad school is for me...","Hi everyone,

I just started my first semester of my MA in English literature, and... I guess I'm turning here to see if anyone else has been where I'm at right now. I'm feeling like it was a mistake to begin my MA straight out of my undergrad. There's this sense of being kind of depleted already, and I'm only two weeks in. Mental health has always been an issue for me, and I feel like I'm getting off to a bad start because I'm having trouble staying motivated and interested, which in and of itself is disheartening because I always assumed that grad school would be energizing and fulfilling to me, but what I'm feeling most is this sense of unbearable isolation and this nagging feeling of, ""I can't remember why I wanted to do this. What am I doing here?""

This is actually rather embarrassing, but I've always found it painful to spend extensive periods of time alone, and tbh I'd much rather be trying out the bars in my new city instead of sitting alone in my apartment reading things I can't seem to concentrate on.  This post probably comes off as fairly immature, but I feel like I'm at the age where I don't want to be single anymore and it just strikes me as way more important to get married and live my life than constantly be striving to reach the next level in my career.

I guess I'm asking... How do people stay motivated and enthusiastic when you've got little else in your life to enjoy? How do you balance your graduate work and dating/pursuing interests outside of grad school? I feel like there's no good solution to the question of balancing your mental health with the work that you need to do to actually complete your degree.",43,78,36.9811290196081,GradSchool
2nd Masters,"I recently graduated with an MA in Museum Studies. Cool 🤙🏽. As I'm applying to jobs, I'm being told more and more than what I need is masters in geology, biology, or the like, if I want to have a fighting chance at getting hired and achieving my goal of becoming a collections manager at a natural history museum. 😐 Would have been nice to be told that prior to doing the first masters when I a researching and applying to programs, but that's not important now.

I am here to ask if anyone else has had a similar situation, where, for one reason or another you went back for a second masters in a different subject from your first?

Thanks!",15,51,37.060885964052545,GradSchool
Pursuing a PhD,"I am currently trying to decide if I should purse a PhD and would love some insight. 

&#x200B;

I am currently a Master's student in an Econ program in the midwest. I am currently working a 9-5 as well (classes are at night along with some TA hours). I will be quitting my job next year to finish the masters program because my concentration only offers courses during the day. 

&#x200B;

I have a lovely fiancee who is supporting me through any decision I make, but I don't want to take advantage of that. We are getting married next July, then we want to start trying for kids a few years after. Have any of you had kids while pursuing a PhD? What was the balance like? Am I crazy for even thinking about this? I can provide more information if necessary!",2,1,37.09817763071921,GradSchool
How to make a good academic webpage as a student to make a good professional image??,"Hello,

I wanted to ask if you guys if you could suggest any resources or platform to make an academic webpage (for free I guess). Some links to the sample webpages would be awesome.

Thanks

&#x200B;

P.S.- Please remove this post if you think it doesn't belong here. No hard feelings.",7,19,37.12676559368217,GradSchool
How long does it take to know if I “don’t like” or “am not cut out” for grad school?,"I’ll be starting my third week of my first year of a PhD in Sociology tomorrow, and I have hated this entire experience. I don’t want to research or teach in the future, so it feels like I’m working towards nothing. I feel like when (if) I stick it out and graduate, I’ll be forced into one of those two job options, even thought I really dislike both teaching and researching. And overall it just feels like a lot of work to be doing when I don’t feel particularly strongly about wanting or needing a PhD.

Im trying to stay positive, but I’m also really concerned that this may just not be for me. How long would you say one needs to try a program before he/she knows?",14,0,37.16261050108958,GradSchool
Authorship for publishing dissertation as a paper,"I recently graduated from a masters program and talked to my adviser regarding publishing the dissertation as a paper. When I discussed authorship I was surprised that my adviser said that she'll be the first author and me the second.  

What makes me angry is that she expects a draft from me and I get the feeling that I'm doing all the work and she's taking credit for it. How can I talk to my adviser about the authorship? I'd also like to know if this is a norm in Social Science fields?",5,4,37.21703179738588,GradSchool
Too many feelings- dissertation proposal in less than 2 weeks,"Dissertation proposal is in less than 2 weeks and although I know I am well prepared I can’t shake this overwhelming feeling of imposter syndrome, like I’m
Going to just fail at the proposal (to not be articulate, to not be able to answer committee questions, etc). This has been shocking, I’ve gone through the rest of my program with relative ease so this response has really got me nervous. 
I’ve been practicing my proposal, and trials are going well, but the stress of this upcoming date has my body totally wrecked. I have headaches everyday, my body broke out in stress hives, and I feel like I can’t relax. I run, rock climb, etc but even with those moments of mindful activity I can’t calm down. 

Anyone else have this experience of stress before proposal or have any advice for how to cope?",3,10,37.24325864923773,GradSchool
How long did it take you to figure out your thesis?,"I’m a first year masters student and i am expected to have my entire thesis proposal done by the end of my first semester. This is stressing me out because I have complete freedom to do what I want. There is no project for me to continue or build upon. I’m completely overwhelmed by all of the options. I feel pressured to already have a clear direction because most of my cohort were given a project. So while other people are working to understand their project and methodology I’m stuck just trying to put a project together. 

What did your timeline look like in your masters programs in terms of your thesis? Did you create your own project and if so how long did it take?",13,9,37.26662670479329,GradSchool
How do you cope when your in vivo experiment goes to hell,"Hello; so I am writing this in the midst of my in vivo work giving a clear sign that our hypothesis was probably wrong. Going into this, we had strong in vitro data, and RNA sequencing gave what I thought to be a solid road map of what was going on. However the in vivo work has not panned out the same, and now most of my protected group are dead, with my control group still doing reasonably well. So my question is two fold: Have any of you experienced similar failure in your in vivo work, and how did you salvage/come back from this?",26,64,37.298918371459955,GradSchool
(From an undergrad) what resources can I use for an enzymology lab?,"(also posted in other forums bec I'm desperate, sorry if that's against the rules!) 

 

Hello everyone!

In a few weeks I will start writing my bachelor thesis for my Bioengineering course, and it will be modeled after the synthesis of lactose free milk.  
I'll be attempting to pre-digest certain sugars enzymatically, and neither my supervisor nor my professor have been very helpful in this regard, so I turn to you guys:

1. I need to set up a sort of rudimentary (/DIY type) of enzymology laboratory at my workplace. They already have a basic microbiology lab. What are some essential components for an enzymology lab?
2. What resources can I use to learn about good analytical methods for sugars? There are some pre-made assays available for sugars, as far as I can tell, but I'm trying to understand how many types of validation this project will need.
3. (this one is a Hail Mary) are there resources I can use to find a good structure for the thesis itself?

Thanks in advance!",0,4,37.3016614270155,GradSchool
Would applying for two different (albeit somewhat related) MA programs at the same institution hinder my chances of getting accepted?,"Hi everyone,

I'm a 4th-year International Relations student who's considering applying for two different programs at the same university, namely VUB in Belgium.

The first one being ""Communication Studies: Journalism & Media in EU"" which happens to be an interdisciplinary program and contains classes that are mostly about politics and IR. However, as a back-up plan I'm also considering applying for the Political Science program there just in case I don't make the cut. So that I wouldn't have to wait for a year.

But I'm a bit worried about hindering my chances by applying for two different programs which may result in the council to think that I haven't made up my mind about which subject I'm interested in

Both programs are within the same faculty if that would make any difference.",5,4,37.33751790849699,GradSchool
Reading and taking notes tips,"I'm in my first semester of grad school, and I'm going full time. I have a lot of reading to do. I realized it takes me way too long to read the textbook and take notes. Because of that, I barely get through all of my reading. 

The way I do it is, the textbook is in sections and subsections. So, I read each section, highlighting the main points from them, then writing the highlight points down. 

By the way, most of my books are ebooks. 

Do you guys have any particular way to take notes that cuts down time? Any tips? Do you feel like notes are even necessary, or you can just highlight and then go back to those highlights if you need to study?",3,3,37.62291142701551,GradSchool
Hooray for small milestones!,"Just had my dissertation chapter 4 signed off on by my methodologist co-chair! Chapter 5 is outlined with lots of notes, and we’re optimistic for a late fall defense. Best wishes for all my fellow PhD students slogging through the dissertation process! It is (aside from parenting) the toughest most rewarding undertaking I’ve ever...undertaken.

Edit: words",2,81,37.72339753812662,GradSchool
Asking questions,"This applies to undergraduates too.

When learning new material, I'm guessing everyone has few questions that pop up now and then as they learn.

The way I see it there's a dilemma regarding asking questions. For one, if you are asking questions it can be an indication that you are enthusiastic about the material or the research. On the other hand, it may come off as you being a lazy ass who doesn't bother to research the answer on their own. If it falls outside the scope of the topic, or is covered later in a course it may also come off as you trying to sound like a smartass to impress the Prof.

My question is if you have a question in class for a Prof or for an advisor, do you try to Google the answer first and talk explaining how you can't find the answer online or in a text, or do you ask away whenever a question comes up?",2,1,38.048223927015506,GradSchool
Does anyone have any advice for an English Major trying to study postcolonial studies in grad school?,,4,1,38.06299244553402,GradSchool
Week 1 of Ph.D studies - is this normal?,"Hello everyone,

so I just finished my first week of PhD studies, and I have to admit that I find the readings I was assigned quite daunting. I am reading Foucault for the first time in my life. It has taken me 1 and a half day to ""partially"" understand 2/3 of the chapter I have to read, and I am not done yet. I have to submit a critical commentary of 2 pages on Wednesday, I have started it but, I find it hard to summarize his argument. (I need to learn to do this asap because of the comprehensive exam that is coming next summer.) Is this normal? I'm also the youngest person in my seminar, and I feel like my past degrees and past university did not teach me how to read very heavy theoretical texts in comparison to my class colleagues who come from other disciplines than mine. We had to comment some readings this week, and I find that my comments were not relevant and did not have enough depth. I have found books that explain Foucault's arguments for beginners, which has been immensely helpful. But, I have to think critically about his argument and I feel like I'm at a stage where I'm just trying to understand what he says before I can critically comment on it.",11,22,38.0636753159044,GradSchool
"Grad school ""Connect"" access code troubles.","Currently I am taking a Finance class. Some of the assignments, requires that I do them through a McGraw Hill Connect website. A week before the class actually started, I purchased the book online, and I read everything about the class. However, what the class was not informed, was that to fully access the McGraw Hill Connect site, we would need a Connect code. In fact, Connect was not mentioned at all until week one, when everyone had already ordered the book online by that time. My purchased book does not come with a code. However, I can buy another one of the same books on the actual Connect site (virtually), and this one has an actual code. However, it's for a whopping $130.00, unlike the one I bought for $40.00

I can currently do assignments on the site, but it's temporary access that will only last for another week. I have emailed the professor about this, and I got no response, even though it's been a few days. Should I just purchase the $130.00 book? This kind of feels like a scam. It's like buying an item online, and someone saying, ""Actually, you were supposed to purchase it virtually for a larger price. Please do so"".",1,0,38.13564290849699,GradSchool
Creative writing MFA portfolio formatting,"Any CW MFAs here who can give some advice on portfolio formats? I don’t have anything complicated, but I don’t know if I need a cover page per story, or if that page would count towards the page limit. Formatting in general is confusing. Any help is appreciated!",3,2,38.1633628159044,GradSchool
How to balance a full-time masters with part-time work?,"I worked part-time on and off during my undergraduate degree, though I quit during my final year as I found it too challenging. I could quit as my maintenance loan (UK) was sufficient and I didn't really need to work from a financial perspective. However, this year I have no choice; I live with my boyfriend and need to contribute in some way. 

I'm starting to get really anxious about having to work and study again as I found it so stressful during my final year. Part of what is adding to my anxiety is the fact that a family member who has also done a masters advised I don't work. A friend of mine from my undergraduate degree who I thought was going to work part time during her masters too has decided not to. I guess this makes me feel alone because I can't exactly choose not to work. 

I have applied to a 16hpw job within walking distance. I'm also keeping an eye out for on-campus vacancies. I'd really like some advice on how to manage my time better next year. Or even just some stories from people who have worked whilst studying - what kind of work did you do and what was your schedule like? Thanks in advance.",3,1,38.210585038126624,GradSchool
"Officially received my degree yesterday!!! Question: Should I add "", PhD"" to my name on LinkedIn, website, etc, or post any other similar updates to my network?","I'm looking for full time jobs (outside of academia), so I want my degree known to help me find relevant research positions. But I don't want to seem pretentious or bragging either. What updates have others done when they get their degree? Aside from removing their asterisk, which I'll do when I'm at my computer!",9,19,38.275284112200694,GradSchool
Combatting over-work culture,"I saw post that lamented the culture in academia that glorifies over work, “oh I’ve spent 80 hours this week,”  “I’m so tired,” etc. 

My PIs have a great solution for this. Our lab group is incredibly open, candid, and cordial. We can use casual language (think 3 drinks in at the bar with your friend language), and don’t feel restricted. But my Pis have a rule: you are not allowed to complain/talk about how are/long you’ve been working. In our lab group agreement we must sign, and I’ll paraphrase, it reads:

“no humble bragging about how many hours you’ve worked. We all work hard, and if it takes you 70 hours to do something, while your lab mate can get it done in 40, that is not an indication that you are a harder worker. They may be more efficient, or maybe you aren’t using your time well. Those types of “complaint-brags “ create a toxic culture of comparison and doubt. We strive for a work life balance. If you are working more than 40 hour weeks consistently, talk to us.” 

It’s amazing. We all get along, and in my group there is very little inter group drama.",38,528,38.41210124183032,GradSchool
Stressing out about my thesis,"I am a new student in a Masters program for history, and am becoming increasingly stressed out about needing to find a topic to write my thesis on. I have listened to all the advice from the professors:

""Find a topic you are interested in""

""Find a subject that hasn't been extensively written about""

I have plenty of historical topics I am interested in. But finding something specific to write my thesis on has been a complete dead end. Wanted to do something on a piece of local history and found my topic had been written about (they beat me by two years -\_-). I feel like the other topics I can think of have either been written about fairly well or I cannot find adequate material to substantiate a large paper. I really feel like I'm running out of options...

&#x200B;

I like most any American history subject. In particular Civil War history, or highlighting previously un-looked at people/groups for interesting perspectives.",6,2,38.60239059368217,GradSchool
My student does not seem to understand what a GA is,"I don’t think it would be professional to share this elsewhere but I really need to share it. 

I am a graduate assistant for an upper level political science class and part of that job entails moderating the discussion section. I go out of my way to do this in a neutral fashion, and often find myself writing things I disagree with to make sure students have the most thought provoking experience possible. I do however interject when students use class discussion to spread demonstrably false information. 

One student in the first two weeks has flooded the discussion with information in support of his chosen 2020 candidate that he’s *really* stretching to make relevant to the topic. So far, I’ve chosen to let this stand for now, but he posted a link of his candidate saying something objectively untrue so I replied with a link to the correct information and explained why a candidate would choose to be misleading about this in an effort to combat false information in the class and help him realize no candidate is infallible. 

I logged in today to a several paragraph response asking the professor to sanction me for being disrespectful, making strawman arguments against things I never said, and then several more paragraphs about why his candidate is the best that exists.

I’m really tempted to write a number of sarcastic replies but obviously can’t, but I can’t help laughing at the fact that this guy clearly has no idea that I’m the one who grades his assignments. I voluntarily grade most things blind so it won’t have an effect, but it’s amusing nonetheless. 

TL;DR: My student posted false information so I corrected them to prevent the spread of misinformation. They requested that I be sanctioned, presumably thinking I was another undergraduate in their class.",13,40,38.6766614270155,GradSchool
Do any of you ever get depressed that your research is so theoretical that you may not see real world benefits in your lifetime?,"I just realized that this decade is over in a couple of months. With that, came feelings of nostalgia because of how life just keeps flying by. Finally, I got into introspective mode and again got kind of sad about my research probably not having a real world application in my lifetime. This has happened a lot lately.

I do quantum mechanics computer simulations (will avoid specifics because it's not that hard to identify me if I say specifically in what). I thought I could do this all my life just because of how much I love just the math itself and coding. But all that satisfaction that came with just having fun is dissapearing. Now, I find myself wishing I was doing research in something that will contribute in helping the world more quickly.

Anyways, not trying to ask for any tips on what to do or anything like that. Just wanted to vent and also hear if any of you ever feel like this?",8,23,38.86377948257106,GradSchool
Should I stay in my BS/MS or spend some time in industry?,"I’m a 4th year BS/MS Computer Science student at Case Western concentrating in AI. I found out relatively recently that research in industry was even a thing that I could do, so I’ve been trying to maneuver myself in that direction. I have two internships from AWS and from a certain unicorn tech company which just went public, who I just got a full time offer from (since I can get my BS this year). Basically I have the option to either work there for a while and then go back for my MS, or I can finish my MS next year and ask for another internship or something.

**Reasons to go:**

I’m finally getting involved in research this semester (late to the party, I know) and I can wait a year or two until my work is published and include it in an application to a better MS program. I can also pay down my student loans. I also, you know, have an offer *in hand* and who knows if I can get another one in a year.


**Reasons to stay:**

My advisor...advised me to stay and finish my MS because while Case isn’t particularly highly ranked, the difference between us and a better school is much more pronounced in the PhD program than the MS program, in his opinion. Also, he recommended minimizing the number of context switches I engage in, i.e. going into industry, going back to school, going back to industry in the span of 3-4 years. Also, the job opportunities I really want are probably only available if I have at least an MS.

What should I do?",2,3,38.918617445534025,GradSchool
Quit Undergraduate Research Position,"Hey everyone, so for some quick background I have a Bachelors of Science in Statistics and CS...I work as a junior engineer at a local company. I started work as an RA in the Economics Dept. during my senior year, I still hold this position after graduation because I thought we were wrapping it up. The professors are well respected in the Economics community and it's been great working with them, however I feel this project is never ending and it's starting to effect my career. They want to meet once a week and honestly it's just not doable for me. I'm very nervous about how to approach them about stopping my work because I plan on pursuing a graduate degree in a CS or Analytics field and obviously I'm banking on their letters of recommendation. Given that I work full time in an engineering position, I personally think what I'm asking is reasonable. Should I straight up tell them I'm done? Maybe set an end date a couple weeks out? What do you all think?  


Thanks",0,1,38.92683503812662,GradSchool
How do you research?,"I've been using Google docs to keep references, quotes from various places, notes, etc, but I also have a paper research journal to keep with me on the go as things arise (I'm doing action research so I take notes on the job a lot). 

I like doing things by hand on paper, but every time I sit down to take notes that way, I just regret it and end up doing it digitally so it's collected easier and easier to refer to.

How do you do it?",6,6,38.926939204793285,GradSchool
Grading for the first time,"Hello yall, I'm starting to grade for the first time! The assignment was a very short, VERY easy paper, yet this student completely messed it up. It hurts so much to read! How do yall deal with the pain?",6,2,38.95999476034884,GradSchool
Switching fields,"Hey y'all.

I recently graduated with a BS in physics and minors in astronomy and math. I like physics a lot but I have wanted to switch to aerospace engineering since last year. I did three years of undergrad research that was space related, but I lack engineering experience. However, my test scores and GPA are well above average, I'm a coauthor on several papers, and I've presented at a few conferences. 

Does anyone have anyone have any advice for someone in my position? I feel like my undergraduate degree being in physics just puts me so far behind. I can't even apply to some schools since I don't meet their minimum standards. Things just feel a bit hopeless, so I'd love some advice. If anyone has been in a similar position I'd love the hear about it.

Cheers, and have a good day everybody.",7,3,38.96575864923773,GradSchool
"Canadian undergrad student graduating in May 2020, looking for advice","so I'm currently in my 4th year at McMaster University finishing up my BSc in biology.  I'm looking to apply for an MSc (in Canada preferably) for Fall 2020, or January 2021. My GPA is 3.65 and 3.84 in the last 2 years. The thing is I haven't done ANY research project or thesis project throughout my undergrad. I have taken many lab courses and field biology courses and even volunteered at a couple of labs. Is there any way for me to apply for thesis-based masters, with a chance of getting accepted. I'm mostly interested in physiology but I'm open to other fields in biological sciences. 

Am I stuck with a course-based master, or should I take my chances and apply to a lab and hope for acceptance. I'm also considering continuing my studies for a fifth year to do a project or a thesis. My university also offers a second-degree program where I can return to school for another degree that can be completed for 2 years. 

Please help, any advice would be much appreciated.",5,2,38.96659198257106,GradSchool
New PhD Student Discussion Board Question,"Hi all!

I started a PhD program about 2 weeks ago now. I have a class that meets virtually and has a pretty specific syllabus with assignments. We're required to post some of our assignments to the discussion board on the learning platform as we turn them (we're all writing different things so not really a plagiarism issue).

It's been a couple years since I've been in school, and I've never had a discussion board assignment. There's one or two overachievers (or maybe not?) who have been responding to multiple posts with new references in addition to comments. I'm seriously overwhelmed with the idea of keeping up with classmates' work on top of my own. I don't know if I have time to go through other people's assignment and read their research and look for new articles and read them just to make a discussion post if it wasn't in the syllabus. For the record, there's a significant contingent of the class who hasn't made any responses at all.

Am I being a whiny baby? I'm hesitant to ask our prof. I'm not sure this isn't an unspoken expectation. 

Thanks, anonymous friends.",4,1,38.98999476034884,GradSchool
Grad School Recommendations,"I’m currently in my 2nd year of a B.Sc. in Geology and am starting to look into possibilities for grad schools once I’ve finished my degree. I was wondering if anyone on here had any recommendations for good schools to do a geology graduate degree at, particularly in seismology or volcanology if possible?",5,0,38.992332723311804,GradSchool
Help me understand my chances getting into an engineering graduate program without an engineering undergraduate degree and a garbage GPA because I've grown up a lot and want to build a career/academics in this field.,"I just graduated with a B.S. in Agricultural and Environmental Science from a top university and a 3.0 GPA. 

My GPA is trash because I was a confused (and tbh lazy) underclassmen, but I pulled it up a LOT over in junior and senior year - so there is a \*steep\* upward curve. 

Anyways, I'm about to start working at a biotech startup as a researcher, and think it will give me a lot of experience. If I spend my downtime taking Math/Physics/Chem classes to fill in the gaps, work for 3 years in the industry, and crush the GRE, what do y'all think my prospects will be to break into the Biotech/Biosystems engineering/Materials science and engineering space. Material science is really my \*reach\* - I would literally die to get to study it, but learning about corn and soil is not really a one-way ticket (neither is a 3.0...)

I have really good letters of rec from department heads, have worked in research labs through the larger part of my college career, and have worked on independent projects that were in the innovation/bio space. 

I'm based in northern California and would like to stay in the area. I would also ideally like to be in the Bay Area since that is where all the innovation magic happens.

 I know I'm asking a lot, but hell, let's see what happens - you have to try, right?",4,1,39.02693920479329,GradSchool
GRFP: first or second year?,"Hi everyone! I just started a PhD program in ecology and evolutionary biology, and I was planning on applying for the GRFP this year. I have been given conflicting opinions on whether or not to apply in the first year of graduate school (and thus have your lack of experience/data taken into account when having your application evaluated) and the second year (when you have more experience with scientific writing, a better idea of what your ultimate goal for your dissertation will be, possibly data, etc.) I think I have a good enough idea that I can write a proposal, and I have one second-author publication as well as pretty decent research experience for an undergraduate including an NSF REU where I worked at a very well known and valued research facility for my field. But I really do not have anything to show for my “broader impacts” in terms of doing outreach, science education, working with underrepresented groups, etc. Also, I have absolutely no data. 

Those of you who have applied for the GRFP after enrolling in a graduate program, did you do it in your first or second year? Did you get funded? And do you have any strong opinions on whether applying in your first or second year will give you better chances of being funded considering your experience and idea for a proposal? Thank you for any and all input!",4,0,39.04673087145995,GradSchool
Disconnecting from work when it’s time to relax,"How do you guys do it? I find myself inexplicably ALWAYS thinking about my work to the point that it actually becomes detrimental to my health/performance. 

I have even scheduled breaks for myself into my schedule, but find my mind still wanders back to the things I “should be working on”. 

I know breaks are a necessity, but I have a hard time changing mindsets. What works for you guys?",8,3,39.109832723311804,GradSchool
MBA vs MS Data Science or Applied Stats,"Just as the title says I’m debating which program to go back for....

A little background on me:

24 years old
BS Industrial Engineering from the University of Arkansas
Minor in Computer Science
3.5 GPA
2.5 years work experience in consumer packaged goods industry in a business focused role on a Walmart account

Long term targeting roles like Chief Analytics Officer or CEO

Just looking for some advice... thanks!",2,3,39.163895223311805,GradSchool
How to address inappropriate looks from a professor?,"I have a weird problem I have no idea how to address.One of the  professors I am currently working on a project with has a tendency to stare at my breasts during our meetings (and before people jump in to ask: I am not wearing anything that shows cleavage or is inappropriate for professional settings in any way). When I catch him do that, it distracts me from our meeting and makes me feel uncomfortable and upset. I  go from feeling like a student having an intellectual conversation with a professor to feeling like a woman talking to a man, who is displaying inappropriate behavior for a professional setting. I know this professor well enough to know that he has no harmful intentions. He has been quite helpful with my time here at my graduate program and I am grateful for the project we are  working on now. So I keep reminding myself that this person is on my side, it might be natural for some people to get distracted like that etc but it's not really working.  I am still uncomfortable  and I get distracted by his looks in return.

The problem is, this project will continue on for at least a few more months (+ he is in my committee) and it is also very uncomfortable to point this problem out to him. So I have no idea how to address the issue but I would like to, somehow.I am sure (unfortunately) that I am not the only female graduate student who has experienced this. So my question is if someone else here has also experienced it and found a way to address it, what did you do? Any suggestions?

**Edit:** I realized that this post has been getting downvoted quite a bit lately. Sorry if people think it is not fitting for the subreddit. However, this seems like an experience some female graduate students (like myself) do experience in graduate school, and given the power dynamics, it is especially hard to navigate it. 

**Edit 2:** Thank you very much to everyone, who proposed solutions! There were some great ideas I never thought of myself that I think might actually be effective. I will try some of them out next week and I hope they make a difference :) And if I find out that this is happening with other female students, too, I will follow u/husky54's advice on talking to the department chair about it. Note: It's been pointed out by u/LastLioness that a faculty member/department chair would better know how to handle this professionally. So I will think about directly talking to them (but will probably keep the identity anonymous at first).",69,344,39.24443920479329,GradSchool
"Happy Friday, /r/gradschool! Tell us something GOOD that happened this week!","Did you:

* Visit your family?

* Earn cover feature spot for your journal paper?

* Pass your defense?

* Start talking to other students more?

* Earn a bunch of money from your part time job?

* Find out you might get to research at CERN early?

Then tell us about it! Talk about anything good that happened this week, big or small!",27,3,39.29491374183032,GradSchool
Anyone willing to proofread my biography for grad school?,"English isn’t my first language, I’d appreciate some feedback. It’s only three short paragraphs",3,5,39.319960038126624,GradSchool
Help with fellowships? Is this fitting?,"So I am in coming senior and thinking about gap year. I plan on applying to Fulbright since my goal is to conduct disease ecology research study outside in the US (in South America which is why Fulbright is extremely fitting to my goals). But I recognize the competitiveness of the program, so I want to apply broadly. Do you think Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) or Ford Foundation would be ideal to apply? I am elegible and my intent to pursue professional school and I want to apply MD-PhD.

If not, is there any other research fellowships that come to mind that would allow me to conduct research in South America?


Edit: I realize i'm inelegible for GRFP :( since i will be enrolling in practice oriented programs. Any advice on where to look?",5,6,39.452078093682175,GradSchool
What high school maths did you struggle with?,"Hey, I'm a undergraduate physics student planning on making a youtube channel explaining middle and high school maths and physics. I need some ideas, so what subjects did you guys struggle with?",13,0,39.530318834422914,GradSchool
How to stop comparing myself to others ?,"Whenever I meet an academic person in my field, I always judge them (subsconciously and unintentionally) and compare them to myself: what are the topics they know, how well they know it, papers, citations, ... Sometimes it becomes so harmful to my concentration since I missed parts of their talks just because I was zoning out about this. I know this is so unhealthy and it is an express way to depression but I couldn't stop doing it. 

I tried to remind myself to focus on learning about the things that they are presenting, learning from them instead of competing with them but deep down I know it is still there, the results of all the comparisions: how superior they are to me and how mediocre I am.

 It has positive effects sometimes as it edges me on to learn more and become better, but overall I would say I'd rather not have it. It makes me very emotional: sometimes I would be very happy just because I think I am better than a person (I know, so small of me), and sometimes I would come out feeling depressed. 

I have been proven wrong so many times when a person I thought was inferior to me turns out to know something I don't and have a quality I admire and vice versa. I know things are not this black and white and noone knows everything yet I fall for this very time. 

I don't know how to put a stop to all this. I do have a goal of my life and my PhD to focus on, so it is not like I need the comparision to keep myself motivated. And yet I couldn't rid myself of it.

Is anyone here in a similar situation? What should I do to make it stop? 

Thank you in advance and sorry for the long post but I couldn't sleep and I just have to rant.

Update: Thanks for everyone advices. It is relieving to speak out what in my head. I will see a therapist and continue working on it. I believe there will be a day that I can stop comparing myself even on a subsconscious level.",34,51,39.530712352941435,GradSchool
PhD across the pond?,"Hey all, 

I'm currently going to be entering the final year of my undergrad here in the states (studying biochemistry) and I'm pretty set on wanting to do a PhD in a related field once I'm out (biochem, microbio, epidemiology, etc) and I've always wanted to live for a time in London. 

I've read some rather confusing and somewhat contradictory articles about how postgrad degrees work in the UK compared to the US, and I just wanted to know if anyone has any experience with this? 

I'd like to go straight into a PhD without a master's if possible, but I can't tell if this is as normal in the UK as it is here. Additionally, does anyone have information as to how funding and fellowships work in the UK vs US?",11,8,39.602413741830325,GradSchool
How to keep in touch with a recommender?,"I am a few years out of undergrad and one of the profs at my undergrad institution wrote a recommendation for me twice, one for MS and one for the PhD program I got into and now just started. When I thanked him earlier this year for all the support he has given me, he asked me to keep in touch with him.

I want to but the thing is I don't know what to write to him. I have always been pretty awkward in social situations. How do I begin my message? Like should I ask if he has LinkedIn or Facebook (I know that sounds dumb) or something?",4,3,39.776916056645135,GradSchool
Does your supervisor always give you a hard time?,"I feel like recently my supervisor has been giving me a hard time about his perception of my lack of progress. I believe I've made a lot of progress in my work, but I'm currently designing and building experimental setups, so I can't really come to them with 'innovative' ideas. Also there are some things out of my control such as budgets for equipment that have delayed my work, but my supervisor seems to have mostly seen these delays as being my fault. I'm going to put more of an effort to keep them up to date with my progress (more frequently than the weekly meetings), as I think that keeping them updated will make them see the effort that I'm putting in. 

This constant negative feedback they are giving me is really demotivating because regardless if I put in the effort or not, they will give me a hard time. To be clear, I'm not opposed to receiving feedback or criticism on my work, rather the lack of support or positive feedback is disheartening.

Has anybody else been in this situation? Was there anything you found that made them realize the work you put in, or made them respond more positively to your work?",2,3,39.825619760348836,GradSchool
Job Search Dilemmas,"Does anyone know of any good job boards to look for things like..jobs or PhD openings places? I'm currently in my 3rd semester of my Master's program in Marine Biology, and while I'm hoping to finish on time, I'm currently apparently following tradition of evacuating for hurricanes and I'm thinking I'll be delayed in graduating. I want to go into a PhD position after I finish my Master's, but if I do end up graduating late, I don't want to feel like I'm running somewhere else to start a PhD, so I'm thinking that taking a year to work is going to happen. In the process of looking, I'm realizing I don't really know where to go to look for anything job related...",2,2,39.84596698257106,GradSchool
Jury duty and PhD,"I’m a PhD student that got called for jury duty. The problem is I am working on projects with experiments that are time sensitive, so how do I go about getting out of the pool for the time being?

Edit: update for anyone else. I’m in NY (upstate, so idk what the city would do) and my county lets you postpone online for 2-6 months. I have qualifying exams in 6 months too :/. I called and got postponed until May though after explaining my situation :)",20,11,39.861094297385876,GradSchool
Likelihood of receiving a post-doc position after my PhD.,"Hi folks,I've been extremely anxious about the future and I figured I'd ask my fellow graduate students/former students to give me some advice towards the next step. I'm doing a PhD in chemical physics. The work we do is extremely difficult; most of the time is spent making sure the entirely home-built setup we use is working. As a result, I feel that I'm not able to publish very much. I have one first-author in a low IF journal (as my supervisor was invited to send something in, and asked me to use some of my data I once found not too exciting and thus never really used). I will also have a 4/15 author paper in Nature Comm. (at least this has a decent impact factor).

I'm very paranoid about the future. I'd like to do a post-doc because I feel I was dealt a shitty hand for my PhD. Maybe academia is better in a different group. I'm responsible for maintaining and fixing two separate labs (everything from the laser to the instrument itself). I feel like I'm useless, and for the past few months, have been worried sick about getting a post-doc. I don't want to go to MIT/Stanford, etc., but even now I feel that nowhere will take me. That's now creeping into even thinking about getting a non-academic career. I have technical skills, sure - but I haven't published much and my supervisor is pretty useless in guiding me or quenching my fears.

Am I being overtly paranoid?",3,9,39.86255263071921,GradSchool
MA Dissertation,"I’m 3 weeks out from the due date and making reasonable progress (around 500-1000 words a day depending), around half way.

Does anyone have any absolute must know tips that they could share that they learnt when writing their Master’s dissertation or wish they knew in hindsight?  For example really obvious feedback that could have gave (or did give) easy marks?

I’m mostly worried about going off on a tangent when explaining my concepts/themes, but keep telling myself it adds to the context of discussion; I’m struggling to understand how 13-15 thousand words is possible within my key theme(s) without going broader in terms of literature and the subsequent discussion.",7,5,39.919635964052546,GradSchool
Asking manager who left job for recommendation letter,"Hi,   
I am applying for a masters degree in computer science for fall 2020. However, I wanted to ask my previous manager who has recently left to work for another company for a recommendation letter. I know my manager does not have access to our company's email since he has left. For the application process, he will have to use a different email address to send my recommendation letter other than my company's. Will this raise an red flag as the the recommendation could come from a personal email or a different company email (doubt this).",3,0,39.958872075163654,GradSchool
Successful strategies for teaching special sections?,"Hi everyone! 

I am teaching general chemistry 1 discussion. I want to run a smooth discussion section that maximizes student involvement and learning. 

So far I've just done working in groups and have them answer questions along with their reasoning for why it is the correct answer. 

The sessions are about 50 minutes with 40 students, and I want to try to have most students participate. 

I'm just seeking advice from any of you on if you have had any successful strategies that you've implemented",1,1,39.97497161220069,GradSchool
What’s your best advice on staying motivated and focused?,"Hey friends! I just started my first semester of my Masters Degree. I’m pursuing a degree in Criminology. I’m super passionate about my field and my future career within it. I wanted to reach out to this sub and see how people feel about staying motivated and focused. 

It’s day two and I already have a sizeable load of homework. I knew coming in that I’d be doing a shit ton of reading for each class. What’s your best advice on staying on track and keeping up with classes as they go by? 

I’ve always struggled with procrastinating and that’s a bad habit I want to shake. I wanna hear what some vets think and how to stay motivated during the semester. 

Thank you all!",11,2,40.002541056645136,GradSchool
Bad idea to explore other career options while in graduate school?,"I am beginning my 4th year in a molecular biology Ph.D. program, and have recently advanced to candidacy. I've had ups and downs, as we all experience, but largely I am still hopeful that I will graduate in the next couple of years. Despite this, I find myself drawn to looking for current job postings and tempted to apply for them seriously to see what opportunities or other paths exist if I were to abruptly exit my program and seek the life of earning a livable wage. 

Do you think it is unethical to apply to Masters-level job positions while feeling like there is only a relatively low chance (\~5-15%) that I would accept a position that lead me to quit my program early? Or am I exercising some good judgement in trying to find exit ramps? Do you think there is any potential blow-back if someone in my department discovers I have applied for jobs? Thanks for your thoughts and input!",1,1,40.07105957516365,GradSchool
PhD programs in Spain,"Has anyone done any type of biology PhD program in Spain? What was your experience and are you happy you did it? I am an American student and have never been to Spain, but I really want to put myself in a brand new area and challenge myself. I would particularly want to do research in molecular biology.",2,1,40.07566605664513,GradSchool
Academic Job Postings in Oceania,,0,0,40.120041056645135,GradSchool
Undergrad research experience,"Hey All, 

I have a question about research experience in undergrad. 

It seems that most grad school applications and most people on here say that research experience is very important for both admissions to programs and success within them. 

I am wondering what would count as suitable research experience for political science? During undergrad I completed two independent research projects with faculty supervision, one in my junior year (1 semester) and one in my senior year (2 semesters) and presented both papers at my  universities research showcase/conference. 

Besides the independent stuff I have also done research papers within classes, my senior seminar had a decent sized research paper within it (30 pages), and that is actually where I am getting my writing sample from. 

I have never actually helped a professor with their research, nor have I worked with massive databases. That's what I keep on seeing on these forums and it has me a little freaked out. 

So do these count as research experience? And do you think it has prepared me for the type of research that I will experience in a Political Science PhD program? 

Thanks",3,1,40.155064204793284,GradSchool
I am sick of working for free,"So many research assistants are expected to work for free. Yes, some students get work-study or some labs, depending on the field, set aside funding for Ra's. However, this has not been my experience in my field of psychology/neuroscience. Every lab has expected me to do more for free or recruit new undergrads to do the work I wouldn't do. Every time a professor has dangled a letter of recommendation over my head as a carrot on a stick instead of real compensation. As if in the workforce a boss doesn't provide one all the same. There is a toxic culture within the academic community that if you don't want to do something, like recruitment, get an undergrad to do it for you and promise a letter of recommendation.  Now, I am a master's student at a major university bulking up my resume with useful, cutting edge quantitative skills I can apply to the workforce. But, in order to get more academic experience I can put on my Ph.D. applications, I have to again work for free for a lab that has ample funding, but doesn't consider the ethics of having students who want to go to grad school work for free. It should be a labor violation. I literally have access to a list of students who want to work in the lab that they would replace me within a heartbeat if I insisted on being paid. This is a rant. I'm not citing anything or arguing over facts, just stating the frustration of my experience.",11,7,40.15626790849699,GradSchool
Forced participation during class ruining motivation,"Just a short rant.

I know that discussions and participation are vital to class especially with less people. My latest evening class has 7 students and my professor loves pressuring us into discussions and doing useless learning activities to pass the time, which often involve moving around the room and having to present something to the class with short notice. It’s exhausting. 

We take quizzes every class and we have to grade each other’s. It feels like I’m in high school again. 

He chooses us randomly to lead discussions which makes my blood boil as I’m someone who likes to participate on my own terms and has previously struggled with speaking anxiety.

 I get easily distracted on my laptop in class but browsing the internet helps me stay awake and focused even if that sounds like it doesn’t make sense. I need to be doing something with my hands in class ie typing notes or scrolling, but at the same time I actively participate and pay attention. Idk I just feel like we are all adults and if someone wants to spend hundreds of dollars to scroll on the internet in class that should be my right lmao. 

I’m genuinely interested in the class material but sometimes being randomly forced to participate gives me flashbacks of high school and I thought we were over this. I dread this class every week and I shouldn’t have to.",17,1,40.168617445534025,GradSchool
How do you guys organize your email?,"I use gmail and I have so many emails from the students I teach, my lab coordinator, and then my PI, departmental emails, and then emails from my own classes. I’m starting to get up to 30 emails a day and I don’t know how to separate them so when my students email me it goes into a separate folder from my PI’s emails.",3,1,40.17641837145995,GradSchool
How did you find your school and know it was the right choice?,Or prospective school/PI?,9,6,40.19928874183032,GradSchool
Poor undergraduate GPA,"I would like to earn a masters in Molecular biology, I earned a Bs.c in molecular biology but with a very poor GPA 2.49. I've been working in research for the past 3yrs now since graduating; at a local hospital and plan on taking a few undergraduate courses. Would I simply not pass the ""GPA filter"" or will the admission committee look at my application holistically?",8,3,40.2033628159044,GradSchool
Worrying what PhD programs want as an MA student,"So I just started my History MA and the program went ahead and waived me into the postseminar course you can take in place of your thesis even though I’m concurrently in the prereq. I took a grad course as an undergrad so they figured I could hack it I guess? 

I didn’t really understand what the course was until yesterday but I think I’m happy with it. It’s one semester of a structured course and one of independent study building off of it, instead of two independent study thesis semesters. I still have to also take comps to graduate of course. 

My mom however is freaked out that a PhD program won’t like it as compared to a thesis. She has worked in Higher Ed. I don’t even know if I’m getting my PhD at this point though. Should I be worried about it?",4,5,40.20417300108958,GradSchool
Failing upwards,"There was a long holiday weekend this past week and I was able to get back to my hometown area to meet up with some close friends I haven't seen in about a year (since I moved out to start my PhD). We got to talking and I mentioned that I'm just super anxious and kind of depressed, going to counseling on the reg, and potentially looking at leaving the program.

My friends (I should mention that these friends in particular never did the whole grad school thing at all) were kind of shocked that my ""existential figuring my life out in my 20s"" thing was me going to get a PhD and not being sure if it's something I wanted. It doesn't negate my emotions at all, and I know that whatever happens that my friends and family will support and love me, but I always think about what others will think about me with every single choice in my life.

Does anyone else feel that on some level they've just kind of been ""failing up"" as it were? Meaning that there's a lot of self-doubt, emotional distress, and generally a complete lack of a plan, but they keep just... for lack of a better word, accomplishing major life things? With a lot of the ""achievements"" in my life it mostly just feels like I'm crossing things off of some list that doesn't exist.",52,155,40.25736744553402,GradSchool
Does everyone love what they do?,"I just defended my MSc., so maybe this is the post -defense fatigue talking, but do you really love what you do? 

I feel like I used to really love geology in undergrad, but I took time off before I went to grad school and did other things.  My MSc. was interesting, but I didn't feel that same ~fire~ I had in undergrad, and most of the things I really enjoyed about my degree were the other things I got to do - TAing, outreach activities, science communication stuff, etc. I didn't hate my MSc. but it was just ... work.  Interesting work, but work nonetheless.

When I started my program I got grilled by a colleague of my supervisor, who told me if I didn't absolutely love my field and know that we'll before starting my MSc., I should leave. I got the degree anyway, despite having a shit experience with that supervisor and that department.  It feels good to be done, but I can't say I really loved my research area. I didn't hate it, but it was a solid 6-7/10, maybe? Meanwhile, some of my colleagues and my friends in arts programs post about how much they love what they do constantly.

I'm starting a PhD in planetary science in two months, which is lot more exciting for me, but I keep thinking about that conversation. I don't know if I feel that little-kid glee about anything -  even though the project seems really cool, I don't feel like I know enough about it yet to really love it - and I don't know if that's just because I need time or because I'm not cut out for this.

Am I overthinking this? How much do you love your research area? I can't help but feel that ""you should ABSOLUTELY love what you do"" is mostly an excuse to pay people less and have unreasonable expectations, but maybe that really is what I'll need to survive over the next 3.5 years?",8,8,40.35845540849699,GradSchool
How to get a postbac research position in machine learning as an international applicant?,"Most of the labs are only willing to offer student internships, and I am not sure what the visa process is for a graduate.",0,0,40.4735364270155,GradSchool
Is this normal??,I’m in my third week of my MS in Counseling program and I’m having feelings of incompetence.  Last week I was feeling really good but this week in class I felt overshadowed by some of my fellow classmates.  I’d want to participate but I would begin to feel as if what I planned to say wouldn’t come out as well educated as everyone else.  I feel like I don’t belong there and I’m not good enough.  Sounds silly but sometimes they use words that I would never think to use and I feel like I’m thinking too much about what to say that I lose focus in class.,8,1,40.56044614923773,GradSchool
Switching fields from BA to PhD,"Hi, all!

I'm currently a junior undergrad studying political science and I am 99% positive I want to pursue a PhD. My main issue is that my interests in Poli Sci pertain mainly to climate change, and that is what I would want my research to be about. Because of this, I'm not 100% sure what program would be best for me to apply to, as none of the five fields of poli sci really include environmental policy.

Would it make sense for me to continue studying for a minor in biology/environmental science and try and apply to programs in that field? If not, does anyone have any idea of good programs in poli sci that would make sense with my interests? I'm new to the whole graduate school search, so all help is greatly appreciated!",8,1,40.61993688997847,GradSchool
Is Grad school a pipe dream for this late bloomer?,"I apologize in advance if there are plenty of these posts out there or if I'm in the wrong place. 

I'm looking for advice as someone who got a BS and joined the workforce with the intention of going to grad school ""some day"". As time is passing though, I fear my education and research experience will be too far in my memory as will my impression on my PI and professors when it comes to letters of recommendation. 

At this point, I am also completely overwhelmed at the grad school process. I'm not sure if I want to go MS or PhD. I fear I may find out I need to take a lot more undergrad courses like physics, analytical chemistry and the like that weren't required for my BS, prolonging my timeline and making my applicable research experience even more a distant memory. 

Have any of you taken gap year(s)? 
Any molecular biology/genetics grad students here? 
Anyone start grad school with a young family/as a new parent? 

TLDR: want to go back to school after being in the work force.",9,2,40.63792300108958,GradSchool
A Motivational Message from a Professor at my Uni!,"""There’s been a meme going around lately. It’s about a grad student orientation at some university where a faculty member advised the grad students to always remember that they’re in competition with everybody around them. This is terrible advice, and for what it’s worth, my advice is to do the exact opposite of it. Treat everybody around you like a fellow human, fellow scientist, potential collaborator, and potential friend. Needless antagonism – popular though it may be in some quarters – is not the foundation of good science. It isn’t great for mental health and well-being either. Think of science as a fundamentally collaborative exercise, not a fundamentally antagonistic one. You’re not in it to prove you’re better than other scientists; you’re in it to discover things about the world! You probably already know this, but it might be good to hear it again.""",5,66,40.78453179738588,GradSchool
"""the college experience"" in grad school?","How  many of y'all have successfully combined completing grad school (Masters or PhD) while still living ""the college experience""? For reference, I'm seriously considering applying for UCSB for its MechEng program (bioengineering emphasis), and I've already attended it and graduated from here as an undergrad. I'm at a happy place in my life right now, and am definitely balancing the school/research/social aspects of my life pretty well.",3,0,40.786233186274764,GradSchool
I passed my preliminary exam/masters defense!,In my program you can use your PhD preliminary exam as a masters defense (plan B; project based) if you take the extra steps to complete all the requirements for the degree. Today I passed both with unanimous votes from my committee. I am officially a PhD candidate with a masters degree.,2,3,40.78818920479329,GradSchool
Applying to Grad School Letter of Recommendation Advice - Should I ask my employer?,"I am getting ready to ask some people for letters of recommendation as I prepare to apply for a masters of science program, however since I am hoping to go into an Environmental Sciences & Engineering MS program with an emphasis on research, would it be wiser for me to ask for three academic references? Basically just stick with asking professors? Or would it be fine for me to ask two professors and ask a professional reference?

I would like to ask my employer for a letter of recommendation since she knows me on a more personal level than one of my professors that I would ask for a recommendation from. I have seen and worked with my employer for 1.5 years now, and she always says very kind things about me and my work ethic, therefore I believe she would write a strong recommendation. However, at this job I am just an office assistant in a research grant institution (NC Sea Grant and WRRI) who mostly does office work, helps with preparing for research conferences, and occasional miscellaneous projects (communications posts about research work, GIS-mapping, organizational spreadsheets) and not scientific research work that I would do in graduate school.

On the other hand, the professor that I would ask a recommendation from had me in his class for a semester in which I got an A in, and I did research assistance work for him for one summer, but I never really developed a strong relationship with him as I did with my aforementioned internship employer. As a research assistant back then, I did not quite do anything exemplary, mostly due to some family health-related issues back then; in fact, I declined his offer to continue being his research assistant by the time summer was over. However since he is an academic reference, and he had me as a research assistant, however short the time was, would it be smarter for me to ask for a recommendation from him instead?",2,3,40.81101327886736,GradSchool
Help: Feeling very depressed for upcoming exam,"I'm studying MA in Psychology and in 3 weeks we will have our psychological comprehensive exam. I have six subjects to study and I've already laid out a plan, a timetable, prepared everything I need to do. Even so, I'm still freaking out and getting more depressed in trying to test myself because it doesn't come out right, or rather, it doesn't sound so academic in a way that an MA student is supposed to write.",3,1,40.83583966775625,GradSchool
"Is anyone else tired of the “I’m so busy, stressed, sleep deprived, etc.” culture of graduate school?","


Hi all, first time poster here! I’m approaching the end of my year of graduate school, and I’m genuinely happy to be in school. Yes, it’s certainly tough and overwhelming at times, but I expected it. 

My gripe is how many students I see in class, or on Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook, etc. incessantly complaining about the work. I understand that we all cope differently, but it just seems so counter intuitive to me. If you have time to post a perfectly curated photo of your Starbucks coffee and laptop, then it seems you have time to write that paper. 

It’s not necessarily how they spend their time that bothers me, but the message they are sending to others. Anyone else annoyed by this or do I just need to get a life? Ha!",118,367,40.91406883442291,GradSchool
Application Q… applying to same school and others.,"Howdy y'all! I am applying to PhD programs, but I also want to apply to the program where I did my MA. How do I handle this… theoretically the person I would want to work if I went to the same program, I would want to write one of my letter of recommendation. (Not the person I did my thesis with thou he's great too). For what it's worth, my school just added the PhD program onto the MA. Any advice is needed… I don't want to step on any toes but I realize that admissions are a process and everyone gets the realities of it.",4,0,40.946534112200695,GradSchool
How do I make a good CV for my committee?,"I'm having my first committee meeting in the next month or so and need to prepare a CV for it. I have a CV from when I applied for jobs as an undergrad and an updated one for applying to my PhD program. But how should I be formatting this one? Do I focus mainly on my academic career? I still don't have a ton of results yet from my current project.

Any help is greatly appreciated!",0,1,40.9692540196081,GradSchool
How will the impending recession affect us?,"I've been hearing about the impending recession everywhere now, and I can't help but think about how that might affect us in grad school and our future in the work force.

I'm an incoming 4th year biosciences student, and I'm guaranteed funding for 5 years of my PhD. However, my estimated timeline to finishing is around my 6th year. If my PI gets funded in the upcoming years, then he will cover my stipend during my last year, but with the recession possibly coming up, I don't know how that will affect funding for biomedical research. [This article](https://www.nature.com/articles/ncb2499) indicates that public funding for research was reduced during the last recession in 2008. The NIH funding went from 30% back in the days to low teens now, and I can’t imagine how much more competitive it will be once the fundings are reduced.

Or, if the recession hits after or right around when I graduate with my PhD, then the job market might be affected. I plan on getting a research position in industry after graduation, but if need be, then I might stay and post doc in academia (if there's funding at this point). [This article](https://www.sciencemag.org/careers/2013/05/value-phd-economic-recession) is a little optimistic, suggesting that PhDs (in England) graduating during the last recession are employed at around the same rate as PhDs graduating a bit before the recession.

What do you guys think? Is anyone else worried about this...?",4,1,40.980041056645135,GradSchool
Is it not normal to apply for a masters program in English right out of undergrad? Is it any more normal if you apply for a program outside the states?,,0,1,41.0393003159044,GradSchool
Tips for test prep?,"I've been taking summer refresher classes and I've been caught off guard by the exams so far even with a cheat sheet I don't seem to be focused on the right material.

&#x200B;

Any general tips on prepping for tests at the grad school level?",0,1,41.064219297385876,GradSchool
Working nights as lobby guard to study while working,"Hi,
I am about to start my nasters and in scared simce I got to pay for my studies while I study. I couldn't find any part-time work in my new field.
I am switching to a coding-oriented degree and am afraid of not being able to study much on my own.
I only study 2 days a week from morning till the the afternoon.
Is it wise to work nights to study on the computer?
Thanks.",2,1,41.06556188997847,GradSchool
Second masters in the same university?,"Hello all,

I am pursuing an MPA and I am in my last semester. After a helpful internship, I realized that I want to pursue a second masters preferably in business. I was thinking whether it be a good idea to get a second masters from the same school or from a different one.  


PS I got my bachelors from the same university due to a combined degree program. The MPA is ranked well according to several ranking sources. I would like the option to work in consulting specifically in finance and policy.",3,3,41.080851241830324,GradSchool
Idk if I’m fit for grad school,"This is kind of a broad question but how do I know if I can handle graduate level work? I just finished undergrad and if I get in, I’ll start grad school in January. I feel like I could handle the workload but I’m also terrified. I’m looking at nonprofit management or interdisciplinary studies with a concentration in social justice (probably doing nonprofit management tho). I have my bachelors in sociology and my GPA is 3.47.",3,1,41.11302716775625,GradSchool
Traumatized after finding mistake in paper,"Three weeks ago, I found a major error in one my first-author papers in response to some requested revisions from reviewers. This error invalidated the entire results section of my paper. I have worked up and redone the entire analysis, and we are about to resubmit the paper. I have a few more small analyses to run, but I feel like I'm hitting a serious mental block. I'm terrified that I've made another crucial error at some point in the analysis, and at any minute a new analysis will reveal the error. I'm having a really hard time forcing myself to work. I'm also having a hard time sleeping, socializing, and being happy. I'm staying up late night zoning out in front of the TV until I pass out, waking up every couple hours in a panic to thoughts about some new analysis that could've failed. I'm not seeing my friends, I barely spared a couple hours to see my brother before he left the country for a year, my relationship is suffering badly, I feel like I'm on the edge of fucking losing it (if I haven't already). Is this it? Do I need to drop out at this point to salvage what's left of my mental health? What the fuck do I do?",33,140,41.17936976034884,GradSchool
What Are Things You Wished You Knew Before Graduate School?,"Hey all, how's it going?

I'm a college sophomore currently. I'm a first generation college student, and I feel like I'm not preparing enough for graduate school. I've looked at a couple of schools in the USA (currently attending MoState University for undergrad) but beyond that, no one has even talked about graduate school yet. Not thinking about undergraduate college early enough really screwed me, so I'm trying to get ahead on the game and be as prepared as possible. I'm pursuing BS. degrees in Animal Science, Political Science, and a minor in Equestrian studies. I want to make myself as attractive as possible to graduate colleges, but I don't know how to go about doing that. My GPA is okay, I'm aiming for a 3.5 by graduation, and I'm in Phi Sigma Pi (gender inclusive honors fraternity), Residence Hall Association, and am currently a Resident Assistant in a building on campus. Eventually my name will be in a paper for artwork credit because I completed an internship for a history professor, but that's all I have accomplished so far.

&#x200B;

I've been eyeballing Montana State Uni; Arizona State Uni; and Idaho State Uni for graduate school so far. So, do ya'll have any tips for me? If you go to the aforementioned schools, why do you like/dislike it?",7,3,41.18190448257106,GradSchool
I'm leaving my full time job for my mental health,"I've been working full time and going to school part time in the evenings. I miss out on so many social events and other classes I want to take because they're during the day. And I wonder why I'm lonely. I am single and live 40 min away so I am only on campus for my class and leave at night right away. My workload at my job has also increased the past year from purely admin to more project based with additional time sensitive tasks and I just am so stressed at disappointing people and not finishing things I cant take it.

My mental health has been steadily declining. Whether it's from doing both of these things and splitting my brain or something else, I just cant do it anymore. My parents always tell mr ""if others can do it so can you"" but maybe those people already have their social lives set or are married and dont have any interest in being on campus more than they have to or they live closer or they're just better at this.

I'm young. I feel if I dont take advantage of all the connections being in school has to offer I will get a paper degree and still be at this same job.

Maybe it's my stress talking but I'm not going to be shamed into this stress cycle anymore. I've been applying to part time jobs and home something sticks.",7,7,41.2514415196081,GradSchool
Organization,"I’m looking for general grad school organizational tips/advice. Specifically, what apps do you use/recommend? Any pitfalls to avoid?",4,1,41.25917300108958,GradSchool
Is it crappy of me to switch projects after working on my idea with my mentor for a couple weeks?,"I am a first year experimental psych PhD and started my program about 2.5 weeks ago. In my first meeting with my mentor we talked about some ongoing projects I could get involved with, a really cool project that hasn't been started yet that I could take the reins on, and my own research ideas. After I gave my basic research question, my mentor had me read more background to tie the idea into a classic social theory. We had our second meeting a week ago to go over my lit review and idea some more, and she said I can put together a research proposal for today.

After talking with my labmates and realizing I just don't feel good about my proposal (I'm not comfortable with my logic jumps, my predictions aren't clear or as rooted in the literature as I would feel comfortable with before proceeding to collect data) The other students in my lab got really excited about my idea, and think it's a worthwhile and interesting question to study, but agree that I should think on it more.

Would it be shitty of me to walk into my meeting with my mentor today and say that I want to put this project on the back burner to get more concrete on my idea and start progressing on her more developed idea that she said I could take the reins on? I feel bad for wasting two meetings with her, and the fact that I didn't have at least one decent research idea coming into this program.

&#x200B;

Edit: I'm also getting involved with the older students' projects to learn the ropes, so I am going to be working on some stuff, but I want to start being more productive by having my own project going (whether my idea or my mentor's)",4,1,41.29527253812662,GradSchool
Best PDF reader for notating articles?,"Short of printing out and writing by hand, what is the best option for highlighting and taking notes on journal article PDFs?",5,1,41.30622161220069,GradSchool
SOS Help,Okay so I’m a recent undergrad graduate that started grad school 2 weeks post-graduation. Every time I walk into a classroom I feel like I don’t belong or I feel unqualified. Everyone is already talking about their research topics and I haven’t got a clue yet. Can someone help me? Talk it out with me?,7,1,41.33933503812662,GradSchool
"I'm approaching the end of my MS program and thinking about a PhD, but I'm worried I'm just afraid of finally leaving school to start working.","Getting my Master's was always in my plan, but by the end of my undergraduate I ended up becoming discouraged and resolved to just start working after I graduated. Then a professor encouraged me and helped me get into the MS program at the same school a month before graduation. I didn't really have a solid interest in anything but machine learning and AI and the general interest to learn more until recently getting into computational neuroscience. 

I don't have any work experience, no internships, so PhD yea or nay?",5,14,41.413710038126624,GradSchool
How to not feel like a failure?,"So, I need some advice. My partner of three years is in his sixth year of being a masters student, in the country we are in that is the absolute upper limit of time allowed.

He needs to be in final drafts of his thesis by November, but for as long as I have known him because of a great deal of factors he's absolutely not coped with the toll academia has taken on his mental health.

He comes from a family of academics, his dad is one of the more highly recognized in his field in this country and my partner decided to also follow a similar route with his honours and now masters.

He's considered giving up many times, but has always ultimately decided to keep going until yesterday when he admitted he's been stagnating entirely with his work and that while he thinks /someone/ could finish this thesis, he does not believe he is capable of it.

He struggles with debilitatingly bad anxiety and depression which he is being treated for, and has a history of feeling like a failure in most aspects of his life.

I know that his decision to stop is necessary and I support him and his choices no matter what, and of course there are so many studies about how academia weighs on mental health.

How do I support him? How do I show him he is absolutely not a failure? How do I let him know that he didn't waste six years of his life?

It hurts so much to see a loved one struggle on such a deep level, and as I have no experience with academia I don't know how best to help him get through this.

I really hope this is the right place to post this.

EDIT: in case there is any confusion, there is no way he is continuing his degree, I just want to know if there is anything that can be done to make him feel better outside out therapy which he is already doing.

I am certain he is not the first, nor will he be the last to walk away from his degree but I just want to know from someone who has done it, what made it a healthier/easier transition.

EDIT 2: just because of the current top comment, I feel like it's important to say that mental health is a contributing factor, but it's also not the main reason for him stopping, nor is it anything more than anecdotal background information that was only included because it is a common reason for people to struggle with finishing their degrees.",18,4,41.45347855664514,GradSchool
"Turns out, the hardest part of my program is -","Finding enough participants.


I need 5-10 volunteers this semester (disabled veterans within driving distance of me) and I know they’re out there, but I just get crickets when I try to schedule anything.",2,0,41.46530726034884,GradSchool
Life post thesis submission is terrifying - Help!,"Dear Reddit academics,

The last year has been ridiculously difficult. I can easily say it has been 90h weeks 12 months in a row, with the hours taken of rest being vastly overshadowed by intense guilt (over not using that time to work) and inadequacy. I produced a lot of research, published 5 new papers, and produced a thesis which is now submitted for evaluation. On the day I submitted it (about a month ago), I couldn't even read a single sentence and maintain focus - that's how severe my burnout was. My sense of not being good enough permeated every aspect of my being.

I'm finding myself now getting better, slowly and surely. But the brain fog is ridiculously severe. I don't think I have lost intelligence, but the lack of care I feel for my current position as a research assistant eclipses all output I know I'm otherwise capable of producing (or used to be, anyway). On top of that, I feel more tired than usual. I easily need 1-2 more sleep in a day. Normally, I'd be exceptionally motivated to work out, and now I really could not care less. I adopted this ""You don't have to do anything you don't want to do."" attitude, in hopes to be kinder and gentler to myself as opposed to the whoo-tshh (whipping sounds) dictator I had employed to stay on track in my madness PhD.

I cannot fathom a job in this field anymore, I cannot stand the endless thinking up of made-up projects to pursue research grants. I want out of academia, and this both excites and terrifies me. I feel largely inadequate as a computer scientist joining industry post-PhD because I just spent 3 years of my life not getting industry experience.

I feel lost. Like there's a daily existential crisis. I don't know what to do with my life, and what's worse, I don't even know if I'll recover from this. I mean, what even is this? PTSD? Burnout? Needing a break after excruciating intense labour and emotional distress?

I appreciate all your opinions and advice.

Thank you in advance.",23,48,41.47553874183033,GradSchool
"I want to continue my studies in statistics and economics, but I lack the required mathematical knowledge.","Hi, I'm currently currently in a master's program for commerce and I did my bachelors in economics. I'm interested in doing another master's in statistics and/or doing a PhD in economics (financial economics), but I don't meet the mathematical prerequisites. Even if I do manage to get into an advanced program, it'll be difficult to continue my studies without having studied more math. I've only taken introductory statistics and mathematics for economics during my freshman year of undergrad, so I'm not really in a great position.

One option for me is to take undergrad math courses, but I have absolutely no confidence in competing with undergrad students, as every class is graded under a curve. For further context, I attend one of the SKY universities in Korea, and I realllly don't want to wreck my GPA if I'm demolished by the competition. On the other hand, I'm completely willing to spend time and money studying math outside of school. I'm willing to study and get private lessons for the GRE or any other standardized test. I'm also willing to study math from scratch. 

Would taking the GRE be the best option for me? Or are there any other standardized exams that I can take? I'd ideally like to be admitted into a top school/program outside of Korea, but I'm unsure if it's feasible. I have a 3.9/4.3 in undergrad (one of the SKY universities) and a 4.1/4.3 so far in my masters program, if that helps. I think I'd get OK, but not glowing, recs. 

Thank you in advance and I hope this isn't too much of a silly question.",6,1,41.54082809368217,GradSchool
How to time management?,"Hi y’all, hope your days are going well! I just want to hear about how do you all manage everything with hard grad school life. 
It’s my first day today and I’m already so overwhelmed and intimidated by the crazy workload.. and I know I need a really good time management to make things work without a mental breakdown..
I had a really messed up schedule when I was in my undergrad( stay up all night and sleep the next day etc.)  This year I finally tried to sleep before 2AM, but I don’t really have any work to do (did one year of freelancing before school ) so it was pretty easy.

So how Do you do good time management? Got any methods or tips on staying balanced with life? Thank you so much :)",4,4,41.78654568627477,GradSchool
Im not the best of the best. Should i still apply for grad school?,"I just got my bachelor's in physics and the plan from day one was to go to grad school and become a physicist.  But overall my grades are average maybe slightly above (3.1 gpa).  I have research under my belt and a lot of other marketable skills.  It's really my dream to be a physicist and honestly one of the only viable career paths for someone with my degree.  But I'm getting two different impressions, one where, even though I'm not getting into a top program, which is fine i don't really want to get into a top school anyways, there is a place that could use me and will be a great fit.  This seems to be supported by data as well as according to the APS, %50+ of physics bachelors go on to grad school.  But there's another impression I'm getting from forums and blog posts that ""if you don't have a 3.5 gpa then forget about it""  

So my question is: 

Am i a good fit for grad school?  Is there anything i can do,other than retake classes ( I don't have another 10000 dollars lying around), to improve my chances?",4,1,41.83229800108958,GradSchool
Time management,"So I started my graduate program this week. It’s 100% online and I work full time as a journalist. I’m having some problems with time management, mostly trying to get all the readings done for the week , I’m an English Studies major. Anyone have any advice?",1,3,41.94424244553402,GradSchool
How to get into grad school for MA in anthropology?,"I recently graduated with a BA majoring in biology and minoring in anthropology. I lost my passion in bio research during my senior year, so I decided to attend a year long cosmetology school program right after graduation to recalibrate my interests. 
I’ve been recently wanting to go back to school for anthropology, and would like to get into a masters program for it. 

I have no relevant work experience/research experience in the field unfortunately. Would this severely hinder my chances of getting in?",13,1,41.94556188997847,GradSchool
Question about going to grad school outside the US,"I (20, NB) am currently a junior majoring in English and Poli Sci at a Top 20-25 public university in the US. My goal is to go to grad school outside the US with the hopes to possibly parlay that into a job in the country I go to grad school in but I honestly would move to nearly any country outside the US. In any case, I am eligible for Italian citizenship through jes sanguinis and the fact that all 4 of my maternal great grandparents were born in Italy and I was just wondering if anyone has any experience that I might be able to talk to in terms of trying to get Italian citizenship both for moving outside the US and to qualify for EU citizen rates in unis within the EU",3,2,41.97693920479328,GradSchool
Phd Programs in Europe same as US?,"So looking into Clinical Psychology PhD programs. Is the routine about the same as far as seeing if professors are seeking graduate students, interest match, etc?

Where can one browse Clinical Psychology programs in Europe? Having a bit of a hard time finding an organized website with accurate information? 

Thanks",1,1,41.98020309368218,GradSchool
What happens if you want to go to grad school for a certain topic but don't meet the requirements?,"Say you're applying to get a masters in some branch of physics, but all you have is a bachelors in computer science. I'm sure they'll want me to take the required math/physics courses, but will they let me in to that university to do that? Or do they just deny you?",3,3,42.01403411220069,GradSchool
"Grad student here, My director changed a course drastically compared to how it was the past years and I did not signup for this. He made it a mandatory course, do I have the right to refuse this course?",,3,1,42.02067763071921,GradSchool
How often are you in your room/house on a day to day basis?,"Not really feeling my living setup/housemates, just curious about how much time y’all spend at home in general. I’m thinking of adopting a kind of 9-5 work schedule where I head out to campus even on days I don’t necessarily have class and chill, work, research, eat, etc then basically just use the house as a place to sleep.",10,0,42.039091982571065,GradSchool
First time doing data oriented research and it's going terribly,"I am a first year grad student and was gifted this very prestigious grant to do my own research. I didn't know I was applying to do my own work--in previous years, students would generally shadow someone else and assist. I had to come up with something fast, but I'm totally new in this area. During the interview and on my app, I was totally candid about my inexperience in the field and with the tools. During the development phase, I clearly explained that I was not able to do computer programming, but the advisers said support would be offered.

I feel like things completely fell apart. Over the weeks given to me, I was never even able to parse through the data due to its structure. I still can't, and I still don't know how. I feel like some project advisers are being assholes, throwing salt in the wound here and there--""this is a convoluted workflow,"" ""this isn't novel,"" (it wasn't meant to be...). If I *could* just parse the data and extract the stuff I want, which seems like it should be a simple task... then write my stuff about it... it would be a significant contribution to the field. 

I'm starting to panic-laugh and feel like this opportunity might have been the very *worst* thing to have happened in my just-beginning career. I have now rubbed shoulders with many of the key players in our small corner and they will know that I spent a few thousand bucks to create a lump of badly written code. I'm supposed to submit abstracts very soon, but I can't even face what I have done out of the shame of it. 

In lieu of an abstract, next Thursday I will submit a ball of play-doh.",10,1,42.065608186274766,GradSchool
Moving Too Slow?,"I am currently working full-time (40 hr/wk) and taking two classes (six credits) for my Master’s. 

I am already feeling like I’m drowning and after nearly failing a summer course, I’m very hesitant to overload myself. I am thinking of dropping one of my courses so I can breathe a little better. In the past year, I’ve switched jobs, gotten married, and moved. It’s a lot for me to handle and my question is: how do I deal with classmates and even my own academic advisors judging me for “moving too slow” in my degree? I mean, I’ll be done within the allotted time frame of six years, maybe even within four-ish since I have some classes that counted from undergrad.

Please offer words of advice, I’m not even 24 and I feel like I'm letting some imaginary force down or disappointing myself.",3,2,42.06739059368218,GradSchool
How do you list a change in PhD programs on your CV?,"After 3 years in one program, I just recently transferred to a different PhD program within my university. How should I write this on my CV? How should I list my former, uncompleted PhD program?",9,1,42.09549244553403,GradSchool
Train PhD students to be thinkers not just specialists,"My supervisor just send me this to read and told me to not forget what grad school is all about becoming a critical thinker able to solve more than just one problem

  [https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-01853-1](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-01853-1)",27,261,42.104554945534026,GradSchool
Can you support yourself as a grad student?,"I recently quit an absolutely miserable job, did some soul searching, and now I know exactly what I want to do - go back to school and get a masters in a field I feel super passionate about. I’m just wondering if I need to find a job to go with school, or if it is feasible to be able to pay rent, food, etc, with a TA position or something else grad school related while in the program. 

TL;DR - What did you/are you doing to support yourself through a masters program?",6,5,42.129809575163655,GradSchool
What do I get someone for their white coat ceremony?,"My boyfriend is getting his white coat for Physical Therapy this weekend and I’m not sure what to get him. I would get him flowers, but he’s definitely not a flowers type of guy.",6,1,42.13380263071921,GradSchool
Copenhagen Business School - MSc Business Admin. & Bioentrepreneurship,"Hi all,

I am a mid-twenties American professional working in the cell therapy/biotechnology field in California. I have a degree in BSc Biochemistry with no background in business. I am interested in the CBS MSc in Business Admin and Bioentrepreneurship, but I wanted to ask a few questions and gather any other helpful information.

I have tried to gather some of this information myself, but am unable to find anyone who has experience with this program. Here are some of my questions.

\- How well does the program prepare students in business and/or science? How advanced is the respective material compared to a MBA or  MSc in Bio/Biotechnology courses?

\- How well does the program prepare students for business outside of Denmark/EU? Any idea on how this program is viewed in the USA?

\-How is Copenhagen for international students, especially from the US? (I studied abroad in Spain for \~8 months, so I am not unfamiliar with travel/foreign experiences)

\-For anyone who is in or has completed the program, how prepared are/were you going into the job market? What kinds of jobs were you applying for and what did you end up accepting?

&#x200B;

Any other information that you think would be helpful would be greatly appreciated (Visas, cost of living, nightlife, schooling, etc). If you need more information from me, please ask. The more information, the better.

&#x200B;

Thanks again!",0,4,42.13494846405254,GradSchool
Do y’all ever feel like you get on your professors nerves?,"I have an assignment due tomorrow that I’m not really clear on the expectation. I’ve been reaching out to my classmates as well and most of us are in the same boat. Today will be the third day in a row I’ll be emailing the professor about it and to see if he will look over my work before the submission deadline.

I just want to do well ;-;",17,7,42.173351241830325,GradSchool
"Just started, feel like a complete failure - normal?","Just started the journey to a PhD, along with some prep in the summer. I don't know how closely this ties in with imposter syndrome but I'm legit not learning fast enough for my research area. Although my advisor doesn't say it, what I am getting from them is a ""hurry the f*ck up"" vibe. I feel like I am just wasting my advisor's time and that they regret picking me for the project.

How common is this experience and feeling among beginning PhD students? Do profs expect students to do pretty poorly early on with the intention of whipping them into shape, or do students make decent progress and show competence and expertise at the start?",11,17,42.186707723311805,GradSchool
What to work on now,Hi all. I graduated about 2 years ago with my Bachelor's degree in journalism. I'm considering going to get my master's in journalism but feel unqualified. I've been writing for a few publications but I still feel like I'm not prepared. Any advice?,1,0,42.194832723311805,GradSchool
Help with gaining the necessary references/experiences for grad school applications,"Hi everyone, apologies for what I’m assuming is the 1000th submission of a question like this, but I have been searching around and don’t find too many people with my situation that could help me out.

I recently graduated my undergrad two years ago with solid grades (I have been told by the UBC masters program that my grades would be “admissible” for masters program applications, so at the very least they won’t kick me to the curb instantly over my gpa). My undergrad degree is in business/finance, with a minor degree in Biology. My first year of school was in physical sciences and a minor in biology, but in second year I switched into the business program.

I am looking towards going back to school to pursue biology, and the path that I am extremely interested in/passionate about is Immunology and genetics. The undergrad courses I took in biology were upper level genetics, ecology, cell bio, and evolution classes. The unfortunate thing about this is that the majority of those classes did not contain any lab work or research work, and as such I am lacking in the references/research department necessary to apply to masters programs at schools like University of British Columbia, McMaster, UofT, and schools of the like in their masters of immunology and/or masters of Biology programs.

Now I do understand that I am lacking in the references and research department, and as such I am looking to supplement my knowledge by taking a 4th year level immunology course online through the university of Athabasca as well as a research design course through the same school online.

I’m considering them online so I can work on them alongside keeping my full-time job working at a bank so I don’t go broke during this transition period of my life.

Of course, the problem I see here is that online classes won’t necessarily gain my any references or hands on research abilities (I will note that the immuno course does have virtual labs, but that doesn't really give you what you need obviously).

Due to this, I am also considering the option of enrolling in some non-program upper level undergrad courses in biochemistry or immunology through my local university instead, and then trying to gain experience by working on projects alongside the faculty.

My question would be, should I just bite the bullet and enroll in non-degree undergraduate courses through the university in the coming January term and work my way into a research project as a technician/student worker? Or will these undergraduate online classes through the university of Athabasca be sufficient for applications for programs in the future years? I know this all is a process and will take some time, and am ready for the commitment. I just want to make sure I am setting myself up on the best possible path.

The same admissions representative I was speaking to at UBC said that they typically only look at undergrad courses containing a degree attached to them for submissions, and non-degree courses don’t “strengthen an application”, which is what is giving me some worry about the right path here now.

Thank you to any help anyone can provide.",0,2,42.206742445534026,GradSchool
CV & NSF?,Hi! I feel like this may be a bit of a stupid question but I am applying for the NSF and don't see anything about including a CV. Do you not submit your CV to them?,1,2,42.224879019608096,GradSchool
Fourth Year Engineering PhD Desperately Seeking Advice on Dropping Out,"Hi all, I am looking for some advice on whether I should stick it through or leave with a Masters. I'll try to condense my story as much as possible and I apologize if this seems too political, which is not my intention. 

TLDR: Entering fourth year PhD program. Have skills required of a PhD but do not have funding to complete experiments for thesis. Could leave with Masters but personally conflicted on societal perspective of not having a PhD.

I started my MS/PhD program in 2016 right after my BS. I naively thought I would be able to do something *good* through research. We get two research rotations during our first year before selecting a professor but because my two rotations did not work out, I rotated with a third professor (famous) who accepted me into the large lab. I am grateful because in this lab I found a great mentor who helped me develop most skills of a PhD in a single year (2018). We had enough lab funding to complete our entirely independent project on stem cells and biosensing and knew that by Fall '18, there would be no funding. I TA'd to cover tuition while we finished and submitted our paper where I am first co-author. My PI read our paper once and we submitted in February (2019). 

I have been lost ever since the beginning of 2019. It's not that my PI is a bad person, he's just a bad PI. He doesn't actively write proposals and expects his students to help with his irrelevant secretarial duties. He actually asks us to help him with  writing proposals for his other university appointments. Whenever I ask him for his opinion, he completely throws me off track towards something irrelevant. 

My previously genuine interest in using science to help society has made me realize the naiveté of my intentions. I am conflicted because I am about to enter my fourth year. In order for me to graduate with a PhD, I would need to complete a second independent project but I can't complete experiments since I have no funding. Every time I have an idea, I have to think about how I'm going to find the money/resources versus how I'm going to do the experiments. I have been performing simple experiments with materials/supplies on-hand but do not have access to expensive characterization (SEM, TEM, FTIR, etc). Additionally, I spend each quarter worrying about finding funding for my next quarter's tuition. My department does not like giving me TA positions because my PI's primary appointment is not in my department. 

I am considering leaving with a Masters since I am no longer developing positively as an individual. Alternatively, I could start spending more of my personal funds to purchase materials and supplies to half-ass a PhD project in 1-2 years. I have become so disheartened with the academic system that I do not even know who to first talk to for advice. Is it the grad counselor? Do I go behind my PI and talk to my department advisor? Do I talk to my PI?  

Apologies for the scattered thoughts and this is not meant to discourage those currently in or about to enter a program. I am sure my negative experience is unique and most PhD students have positive experiences.",12,14,42.235110501089586,GradSchool
Going to meet professor tomorrow and am really nervous,"Anybody feels the same,especially the first time you have a formal meeting with your professor/advisor about the work you have done?",3,2,42.312703093682174,GradSchool
31 years old and applying for a masters at an International University,"Hi! As the subject states, I'm going to be applying for a post-graduate degree after being out of university for nearly a decade. Just wanted to see if there was any advice anyone had about getting letters of rec from past professors, or helpful information. Looking at the English + Creative Writing programs, or the Marketing program at the University of Bristol. My career is in Marketing and I double-majored in English Lit and Creative Writing as an undergrad. Any info/advice is appreciated!",2,4,42.32244846405254,GradSchool
"Dear fellow grad students, how do you speed-read papers?","Hello,

I just started my PhD a couple of weeks back, and I've never been this busy in my life! As it's my first semester there's zero research and all classes, it's kind of breaking my spirit (I have a Master's. I'm completely burnt out from taking classes.

So I'm taking 3 core classes and all of them have 1-2 papers each as assigned reading. It usually takes me weeks to finish reading a paper and I thought that was the norm. How do you read so many papers in a few days? Does anyone have any speed-reading techniques for papers?

Thanks!",12,11,42.52072392701551,GradSchool
Thesis is wrong?,"Hi everyone,

I've recently started drafting my thesis and have it just about done. I am ahead on deadlines, and am very proud that I managed to dish out a thesis early. The problem is that I think I realized my analyses are incorrect for the kind of data I have.

I have brought this up to my thesis supervisor, but it was disregarded and I was made to feel like it was a non issue and that it would be considered during the limitations. As we start to prepare for publishing the paper, I can feel this issue looming over me again.

Is it possible for me to be worrying over nothing? My thesis has been revised by many academics and they have all approved of the analyses. Still, I can't help but feel they may have missed something important.

Thanks,

epi\_P

EDIT/update: I read up on some literature on the topic and ran some analyses to verify that my methods are correct. It seems that I am fine in taking the particular course of analysis that I took.",6,3,42.6561290196081,GradSchool
Last year of my masters program and I feel so miserable,"I am an Epidemiology major working towards an MPH and I absolutely hate my school. I hate the stress and the pit of depression I fall into every semester.

I only have one full semester to go, and then I'm part-time for the spring while I write my master's essay.  Whenever I start reading my text or watch an R tutorial, tears actually well in my eyes, I hate the prospect of school so much, but I'm told I will hate my job too. Life is just so miserable--I'm constantly waiting for it to get better, but it never does. I don't even work part time when classes are in session, i probably have no right to complain, but even when I think of studying I instantly get a tension headache, as if my brain is subconsciously aware of the pain I'm about to endure.

It shouldn't be this hard, and I don't know if anyone else in grad school has ever felt this hopeless, despite being close to the finish line. If anyone has advice (besides therapy and antidepressants, I'm already on that train), I'd be happy to hear it. I hope whoever's reading this isn't as miserable as I am right now.",9,21,42.82854800108958,GradSchool
"Make science PhDs more than just a training path for academia: Science PhD programmes cater almost exclusively to students bound for academia, but they don’t have to",,25,292,42.83632577886736,GradSchool
Grad school makes me feel like a dumbass (English major),"Won't lie, I always felt smart during my undergrad years.  Easily got a near-4.0, was in the honors program, etc. etc.  I was motivated, and I saw many people who just didn't care.  Now I feel like I don't know much at all.  My peers in grad school are very smart, and their writing and analytical skills are of a high caliber.  They're very sharp, and sometimes I feel dumb in comparison to them.  I feel like many of them have a better grasp of theory than I do.  I just feel like my knowledge is limited or patchy, compared to people who can draw on so many ideas in literary analysis.

Kind of depressing but also sobering.  Not as smart as I thought I was.  On the one hand it's a bad feeling.  On the other hand, it's good because it motivates me to try harder.",19,26,42.836788741830325,GradSchool
What masters degree to get?,"I realized last week that I'd like to try for graduate school. My passion is in genetics, but the local state school that offers a msc in that, their application cycle deadline is in April, so I would have to wait.

There's another state school that offers a MSc with deadline next month, but they don't offer genetics specifically. The program I would choose there is MSc in bio, with concentration in molecular & micro.

The question is, if I plan to pursue a job in genetics industry in the future, would I be ok with the MSc in bio? Or should I wait & apply for the genetics masters? If I just get a masters, how much would a specialized degree help?",1,0,42.8867077233118,GradSchool
What is the normal drop out rate a supervisor should have?,"I figured I'm gonna drop out. Should have done it a really long time ago. First I thought it was just me, because I selected a bad project, but then I realized my supervisor is partially to blame as well.


He really did not participate all that much in my research, he placed no goal or had any idea what the project should involve. He was also never really around, I think he met with me 10 times in 2 years. So, yeah... no much of supervision.


So I looked back, and realized that the lab was full of people who then dropped out, in a period of one month to one term from starting. Overall, over the past 2 years about 50% of his students dropped out. I know no other prof with a failure rate this high. 


Is this normal? How is it with your school/lab/supervisor?",13,4,42.9038952233118,GradSchool
taking a year off before grad school? teaching abroad,"so i'm about to finish my undergrad in a year. by graduation i'll hopefully have hopefully done some research, maybe published a thesis. i also wanna take some extra classes or certificates to build up a portfolio after i graduate before applying. however, i am super burned out (as in my username lol) and i really wanna teach abroad because it looks like a great opportunity to travel and experience the world, and also save some money, and finally just.... not study for a bit.

&#x200B;

i'm wondering how much this will set me back in terms of applications and letters of rec? will this look bad? could i still ask my professors for letters of rec after coming back, or would it be too late?",1,1,43.00729800108958,GradSchool
I think I've overcome my writer's block,"Hi r/GradSchool 

For the last 2 months, I've been trying to write a review paper but for quite some time I got stuck on start to write. Most days I arrived at work, I opened a document and I tried to put some thoughts on the paper, but most times nothing came to my head and I usually decided to move on and I went to make some other stuff. The two months passed and I've written a couple of paragraphs. Yesterday I've decided that I needed to change that once and for all. 

So today I arrived at work I opened the document, grab my headphone put some nice music and I used the Pomodoro technique (and extended version). I did four 40 minutes Pomodoros spaced by 10-minute intervals for a quick walk and breed some fresh air, after the fourth Pomodoro I did a long break and I went for lunch. So today I achieved more than in the last couple of months, I guess this is close to nothing for some of you but I'm trying to stay positive and be proud of these small wins. I hope this can help some of you leading with writer's block. Tomorrow tries to get to work, seat at your table and just write for a couple of hours. If things go wrong don't stress out just breath. I'm sure that will improve and then try to appreciate the small wins instead of trying to go from nothing to the world's most productive writer.",4,5,43.0567540196081,GradSchool
"Currently doing a non-thesis option in marine bio, did I make a mistake?","I recently spoke to one of my professors about this issue, and they made it sound like I messed up. I'm mostly looking to get into research right now, although I'm open to doing conservation work for a career instead. I'm currently trying to engage in other labs around the campus to see if they have any available positions as well. In any case, did I screw up? And if I did, is there any hope of fixing the situation? And if there is, then how badly is it going to financially hurt me?",2,1,43.0680966122007,GradSchool
Incoming Grad Student facing Existential Despair and Impostor Syndrome: what are things you wish you knew before starting your program?,"I feel highly unqualified to be in my program and feel like I had to prove something to everyone that I could do something great.......now I feel like I probably shouldn’t have signed up for this big of a commitment esp knowing that I suffer and have mental health issues. 

For those of you who relate, what are some things you wish you knew before starting your program that might’ve helped your mental health? Also, what are some things that have encouraged you to continue the journey despite getting discouraged?",3,3,43.19384892701551,GradSchool
My imposter syndrome has imposter syndrome.,"Most of us struggle with imposter syndrome. It’s nothing new. I’ll feel myself comparing my achievements or intellect to other scientists around me and coming up short, feeling inadequate, like I just faked my way in and don’t belong. Then I recognize that that’s just imposter syndrome speaking and most of us get it from time to time. 

But wait, is it really imposter syndrome? Sure, *real* academics get it. And it’s totally valid when they do - they’re just as deserving as everyone around them. But am I just appropriating that term to make it sound like I belong here, when those feelings are actually very real feelings of failure and the accurate sense that everyone else really *is* better than me? Is my imposter syndrome just another way I pretend to be a real academic? 

AAAAAAAAAAA",55,416,43.24980957516365,GradSchool
How did you design your appraisal/comps presentation?,,4,3,43.256950778867356,GradSchool
How many slides for 30-minute presentation?,I'm working on my comprehensive exam presentation (biological sciences) and wondering what the general consensus is on the right number of slides for a presentation. How many slides/minute? What does everyone generally try to hit?,6,2,43.29717068627477,GradSchool
My Attitude Starting Each Year,"A brief description of my attitude going into each academic year. \*\*I R organic chemist on PhD track. 

First Year: I am great and hard working, life is going to reward that with great achievements.

Second Year: I am certainly above average and good things are right around the corner.

Third Year: I am a good man and deserve good things but no one with power will help me. 

Fourth Year: No matter the cost, I will finish knowing I was at peak performance my entire degree.",2,10,43.35173087145996,GradSchool
"What percentage of the week do you spend on paper reading, experiments/data analysis, and coursework?","Hi all, 

I am a second year grad student, and have been working in my thesis lab since May. I am in a new field (microbiology), and am struggling to make time for everything in my day. I have been neglecting the paper reading/learning foundational knowledge for this new field/coursework in favor of doing experiments day in and day out. This has lead to me being up late at night and using large chunks of my weekends trying to get caught up on everything I neglected outside of bench work. 

Due to the nature of the academic environment, I feel a constant pressure to be getting things done, and a constant expectation that I be working around the clock. This is really weighing on me and is making my anxiety and confidence plunge. Something needs to change with my schedule, in order to give me some free time and not be working day in day out, which is not sustainable. 

My question to you all is this—about what percentage of your week do you devote to learning/paper reading, to benchwork/data analysis, and to coursework? How much free time do you allow yourself on a weekly basis? Thanks very much, I appreciate any insight.",16,46,43.3764415196081,GradSchool
TTS (text to speech) for science papers?,"Does anyone have experience with using TTS to listen to research papers? I have dyslexia, so reading is a very slow process for me. I have a lot of literature that I want to get through, but not enough time in the day. I've been playing around a bit with different TTS options to listen while driving or entering data or something like that. Anyone have a suggestion or recommendation? The ones I've looked at so far are decent, but get tripped up with figures and tables (citations can get a bit annoying too). I realize my dream solution probably doesn't exist or is very expensive, but there may be something close. Thanks!",4,5,43.388872075163654,GradSchool
"Depression/life made me hold myself back and my GPA was a 2.0, my Grad School Dream is completely dead huh?","As the title says, I have (manic) depression as well as anxiety which coupled have led me to make some pretty terrible life choices. 
Paired with my father’s long term illness resulting in his death earlier this year, I basically lost the ability to successfully be a person for a while. 
Pretty sure I’ve shot my chances of being a success in the future in the foot, as reaching higher academics was always a goal of mine. 
Does anyone have any scholastic rags to riches stories to reignite my motivation, or should I face the music and let go of that goal?",11,2,43.666221612200694,GradSchool
Currently on Fulbright but have very little else going for me when I apply this fall.,"So I am currently a Fulbright ETA in Taiwan. I don't really know how I got the Fulbright. I double-majored in History and Chinese at a mediocre small school in the pacific northwest and got about a 3.15 GPA. I think my writing style and letters of recommendation were very good.

I am taking the GRE next month and I don't assume I will do particularly well. As I am not a good test taker.

I want to get a masters in History or Asian Studies. What trier of schools should I be looking at? How much will the Fulbright help?

Right now my list is U of Oregon, U of Victoria, UBC, Washington State, Northwestern, U of Washington and then maybe some UC's? Is that a crazy list for a 3.15 w/ Fulbright?

Also, I am only 22.",3,9,43.702379019608095,GradSchool
"""zero"" to phd in 10 months?",edited due to irrelevant title choice; mods please delete.,3,0,43.74948550108958,GradSchool
Am I obligated to tell my advisor of my medical condition?,"I have a chronic, incurable medical condition. I have to take weekly shots due to this. My advisor and I will be doing research soon that requires we take a plane. I bought a travel carrying case for the needles and syringes but I don't want TSA to take it away from me. For whatever reason, it's considered a controlled substance, even though I have a valid prescription. The medication also causes phenotypic changes as well over prolonged usage. I also will most likely need surgery this summer due to this medical condition. I hope my recovery time is rather short so that I can do field research. Generally, I am a very private person and don't like others becoming involved in my business. I don't think my condition would cause me missing class or anything like that but there could be some travel issues.

Edit: I have a reproductive disorder (endometriosis). Basically, I have to take a shot to lower my estrogen levels. I've had multiple surgeries, etc.",36,103,43.91021466775624,GradSchool
How do I ask for letters of rec?,"I graduated with a B of Philosophy in 2014. I’m now in the process of applying to graduate programs in philosophy and Theology.

How do I start a letter to my old professors asking for a letter of recommendation??

I’m lucky that, while I was an undergraduate, I made a huge impact at my school, so I’m not worried about not being remembered. But how on earth do I start a formal letter asking for a letter of rec?",5,6,43.992460038126616,GradSchool
Geting jobs after grad school as an international student?,"Hi guys, 

I am an international student doing thesis masters in food science(not sure if I will do PH.D in my current school or not), and my ultimate goal is to live in the US with my family who already is either LPR or citizen. I can technically be a perm resident through family but that may take longer than I initially expected, so I am looking at another route, which is an employment based. 

For those who managed to get jobs after you finished PhD or MS, what are the good strategies to make connections and expand your possibility to find jobs after the grad school?",1,1,43.99373318627477,GradSchool
College ring in grad school,"So I got an email that I qualify for getting a LSU ring because I have completed 18 credits thus far as a grad student. I’m going to get my PhD in the same place, but it feels, sketchy, you know? Like I have a college ring from my undergrad because I was a double major and overcame a lot of personal traumatic issues. This feels like a cash grab.

However I would like to commemorate in some way that is less gaudy.

Thoughts? Advice",23,2,44.11409198257106,GradSchool
Displaying unpublished data analyses on Github,"I’m not sure if this is the place to ask or if I am better asking stats people but it is related to any data analysis stuff you have done in grad school for your PI.

Well basically I’m in Biostats Masters and I have done a lot of stat analyses on bio/biochem datasets for people in my lab. 

These analyses are not simple t-tests or anything that trivial they are a lot of comprehensive Mixed Model GLMs/GAMs. I’d like to showcase some of this stuff for employers but I’m not sure if its ok. 

What is the way to go about this? Because the data is unpublished. The thing is if I can’t show this then I don’t have much to show on there.",6,5,44.127656797385875,GradSchool
Graduate School Preview Programs,"Hello, 

I have been invited to tour some engineering graduate schools and have also found some programs for various times in the fall and coming spring. These programs seem quite serious covering all expenses and lasting 3-4 days at a time. 

Did a lot of you participate in such programs during undergrad. I have a bit of a research under my belt, a few publications I was somewhat involved in and a few years of research experience. I have done work at 3 institutes and have spoken/presented at a few conferences. I have put myself out there in terms of interest and I know that my advisors have been quite vocal in the past... I'd imagine that's where a lot of the interest is coming from. 

I am not sure if I want to go the grad school route yet, I also have a lot of offers in the private sector and in the navy. I don't want to give these schools the wrong impression by taking these sorts of trips and then deciding against participating... I would hope that this is sort of the point of the program though? To gauge how successful a match it would be? 

Also would put a lot of strain on my current semester to be out of town that often, but the programs do sound very interesting. What do you guys think? 

Thank you.",3,2,44.16827022331181,GradSchool
What is the right approach to apply for MAsc in Canada as an international student?,"Hello everyone, I am planning to apply for a thesis-based master's in Civil Engineering at Universities in Canada. Does it matter if I mail potential supervisors before I apply to the university? I know I can anyway apply without doing that but what are the chances of being selected even if I received zero responses via email? Thanks!",1,1,44.18596698257106,GradSchool
Is Honesty (w/Tact) the Best Policy When Choosing Your Adviser?,"**TL;DR: Not sure if I'm gonna fit with an advisor. Going to be frank about it with them, but I do like them and want to give it a chance if they're willing to make some minimal changes. Good idea or bad idea?**

When I got into grad school, it was in large part due to a faculty advocate whose lab I wanted to join. I don't think I'd have gotten in without their recommendation. The thing is, over time I've realized that the lab is run very rigidly. To some extent this is understandable based on what typical grad student workloads tend to be and the general idea that you want to minimize alone hours in the lab for safety, but I feel like it's really, really inflexible if you want to strike any kind of sanity balance. As in: I'm not sure how I'd schedule a dentist's appointment without using a vacation day, or fit in workouts. I know that other labs work differently and are usually more lax, this one is exceptional.

Right now, there's a selection process where we rank our adviser preference and essentially ""match"" based on funding, mutual interest, etc. I'm supposed to have multiple conversations with multiple faculty. My attitude, which is in part born out of some hard life lessons I've learned (I'm an older grad student, not one coming to grad school at 21-23), is that I need to just be honest and say I don't know if this will work for me because of XYZ reasons of personal style and because I don't think I'll do my best work in those conditions. I don't want to seem ungrateful, but in a sense if I burn out one year into it and leave the lab, that will also reflect very poorly on the supervisor and also be ungrateful. I will still list them as my first choice, but I will essentially say that they're my first choice as long as they are willing to shift some expectations. (And to be clear, I don't expect them to shift expectations for me and only me--frankly the whole lab would benefit.)

My goal is not to judge the working conditions of the lab and condemn them to this supervisor's face. There's a difference between having some gonads and being an ass. I am however not going to mince words in voicing my concern--even if it jeopardizes my future with that lab and maybe even orphans me. With the latter (though it's less likely) I'd take that as a sign to regroup, and maybe even reapply to other grad schools. That's not something I'm fundamentally scared to do. I'm more scared to set myself up for failure. In other words, it's not that I think I'm such hot shit I can dictate terms, but more that I don't want to accept terms that set me up to fail, even if it leads to what is essentially a false start.

So this is sort of a general question, but am I approaching this correctly? Or am I being naive and missing something critical I should include in my calculus?",7,2,44.24833966775625,GradSchool
Weak GRE scores? Are they an impediment for Canada?,"I intend to apply to universities in Canada, most programs don't care about the GRE but some of them ""suggest"" it and one of them requires it, at least for international students they do.

I'm taking the test again in a few weeks. I think it will go well but I'll retake again it if I need to.

Nonetheless, I'd like to know just how much that test matters anyway.",9,1,44.31482114923773,GradSchool
What to do with a bad project,"I basically realized this weekend that I'm having such a hard time with research because I picked a bad project and I'm not entirely sure what to do. I'm finishing off the first year of a four year PhD (UK) and so it feels like the clock is ticking on how much I can change or fix it. 

Unfortunately, my supervisor is on maternity leave until may and the only advice I got from her replacement is to approach things with curiosity rather than fear (kind of tough considering I have severe GAD). I'm not gonna lie I've been panicking and pretty much anxious for the past month or so. The fact that I've spent a year working on a chapter that might not make it into the final product alone is stressing me out.     I'm trying to find a new way to think about the project but I've always been the kind of person that gets stuck in one line of thought.",12,47,44.31778411220069,GradSchool
Shopping for grad school!,"Not sure if this ever comes up often but I'll need to start shopping for grad-school and i need to set aside a budget for it  and for that i'll need to determine the things I'll need to get for grad school- Here's everything I'm planning to carry on the flight: clothes.  Everything else will need to be purchased on arrival. 

Destination: UK (coventry) 

Course: MSc. Marketing 


As of present type of accommodation hasn't been decided : look for a single occupancy room, shared house.
&#x200B;

I'd really appreciate if you folks could help out! I've never moved out of the house before...I lived at home while pursuing my undergrad , so I don't really know what living alone or moving abroad is like and any and all help would be appreciated.",34,5,44.329230871459956,GradSchool
Purpose Statements for Master Social Work programs,"Hi everyone, I’m starting my purpose statements for MSW program and was curious if you anyone has any advice in writing my essays. Should I focus on anything in particular? Is there anything different about an MSW essay? My undergrad essay focused on the arduous journey that led me to school. I'm not sure if those details should be included.",1,3,44.3799253159044,GradSchool
Reaching out to potential master's thesis mentors and for RA positions,"Classes start for my MS in Biology next week, and I'm hoping to get myself in a lab to work on my master's thesis by the spring semester.
I also want to be able to work as a RA simultaneously if I can to make money. That is, do work as a RA and do my thesis based on that work.
Anybody know how likely this would work out for bio students?

Perhaps more importantly, I have no idea how I'd go about approaching a professor about this. That is, do I ask if they have RA positions and then ask if it'd be possible for them to mentor me for a master's thesis? Or would it be better to find out if they had master's positions available and then ask if I could get paid?

Thnx",5,6,44.40436976034884,GradSchool
Experience with beginning postdoc before defense.,"I'm a PhD student 4 years into my degree, with around a year and a half to go. I've been recruited for a pretty cool postdoc position. Its currently open but they requested that I apply anyway, and I interviewed and there is currently talk of trying to hold it open for a year so I can take it and finish writing my dissertation after moving there to begin the postdoc. Does anyone here have any experience with this sort of situation, beginning a job before writing and the defense? How was it?",6,15,44.46828179738588,GradSchool
How do you deal with grad school when you are away from your terminally ill parent?,"My mom has cancer and is currently taking chemo. I've tried to not sulk around since the only thing I can really do is be strong for her. In the end, I know I will never be able to prepare myself for her death, but today I am feeling a bit vulnerable because she's been  commenting on how she suspects she won't have much time left.

I go back to Europe to start grad school (after having done my undergrad there) in two weeks. My mother will be taken care of - she has a great support system. I'll try my best to keep in touch with her of course.

However, I am wondering how I will be able to cope, especially if she does not win the battle. I can't let my grades suffer at all. 

Have any of you experienced anything similar, and if so, do you have advice?",6,17,44.46986744553403,GradSchool
Submitting thesis for review next week,"Hey! 
Finally. Submitting this behemoth for review next week. Any suggestions for final checks before submitting, typical errors and oversights? My frequent error is getting Table numbers correct. Any other?",4,3,44.53283040849699,GradSchool
Opinions on an Online Masters Degree vs On Campus,"I am not the most competitive student for grad studies but I really would like to further my knowledge of computer science by getting a masters degree. I am local to San Diego and I work full time as a software engineer. I am considering going to SDSU for their computer science masters program but I am concerned it would take me a long time to finish the program & I wouldn't be guaranteed a thesis with the masters. I also live far from the SDSU campus and my work is also far from SDSU so it'd be a challenge to finish the degree but it might be feasible. I have also heard from friends & other alumni that SDSU doesn't have a great masters program for computer science.  I was considering going through the OMSCS program offered through Georgia Tech as it would offer more flexibility if I were to keep working but I am concerned how an online masters degree would be perceived. I don't think I want to go for a Phd after getting my masters degree, but I was thinking of teaching at either a community college or CSU as an adjunct.  Should I consider postponing my mscs for a year or two and then quit my job and go for the on campus program, or would it be ideal to continue working and try either the online program or on campus program part time?",2,1,44.677309575163655,GradSchool
First paper and mental breakdown,"I am currently enrolled in a MSW program. My first assignment is to write a paper introducing myself in terms of major bio-psycho-social domains that characterize who I am. Because I don't usually talk or write about myself, I am lost on what topic to cover. In addressing this prompt, would it be acceptable to talk about my past in referencing who i am today, or would it have to be rather current events that characterize who i am? If this is in the wrong subreddit, just let me know. I've been writing so many different versions of this paper, but am so overwhelmed and overthinking the whole prompt.",4,2,44.73430031590439,GradSchool
Am I wrong for wanting to get in and get out of my masters programme?,"I’ll try to make it as brief as possible. I go to USC’s Sol price, I’m doing an IPPAM, international public policy and management masters and plan to go on to do my PhD in Poli Sci after, hopefully in Japan. I’m the only natural born US citizen in my programme, it’s a small cohort of about 40 people, most are from Kazakhstan, China and Korea. Literally everyone except me is fully funded by their countries to get their degree and come back to work. Most of them already work in government, justice system, law enforcement etc, so they’re all pretty well established too. 

  The programme is normally two years long, but I’m going to do mine in 1 year, because again, I’m paying for it out of pocket and don’t have the luxury of being funded. Y’all already know from the recent news, USC is expensive as fuck. So, in order to do that I have to take 16 credits a semester which is 4 classes. Yes, grad school classes are intense, but I went to uni in the UK where are undergrad courses were very similar to US grad level courses in terms of reading, preparation and time, so for me it’s not a change. 

 So, my programme director had a BBQ today at her place and she was trying to tell me that she wanted me to have enough time to be social with the other members of the programme, other events, stuff outside of class etc. I explained to her basically “with all due respect, everyone here besides me is fully funded and has the luxury of being able to take their time to get their degree, USC was always going to be a step on the road to my ultimate goal, which is my PhD. I think I get enough social interaction from the organisations, classes and other events I take part in” 

 My mum was at the BBQ with me and told me I did well to hold my ground. I just feel like, I’m here for my degree and to gtfo to my next step(hopefully Japan), not to be Mr. IPPAM. You know? Anyway, my question to y’all is, is it normal to feel this way considering my circumstances/situation?

Downvoted and not a single response? How was my post offtopic? Why not respond and explain the issue you have and have a discussion?",10,0,44.8020665196081,GradSchool
Overwhelmed!,It’s only the start of the semester and I am already overthinking my workload. I was not the best student during undergrad. Grad school is sure to be harder! I don’t even know why I was accepted! Is anybody else feel like they’ve bit off more than they can chew?!,4,1,44.83926559368217,GradSchool
Foreign language proficiency,Do PhD programs that require foreign language proficiency require that you include that language in your dissertation? Or is it just to make you well rounded?,2,3,44.89526096405254,GradSchool
Finishing school at 30?,"I'm having a minor (and most certainly irrelevant in the long term) bit of a freak out and could use some insight. I (20 y.o.) just realized that if I go down the track that I pretty much planned to go, I'll graduate with a PhD around the age of 30 with no work experience (outside of academia). This seems like something really obvious (duh just add up how long it'll take you to get there) but I just didn't think of it. How old were you (or will you be) when you finish with your graduate studies? Is 30 too late? Will I be able to find a job outside of academia if I choose to go down that route?

Edit: Thank you to everyone who has replied! I feel a bit better about the whole thing and also a bit ridiculous for being so worried about it. But that's life.",29,7,44.91759892701551,GradSchool
You make grad school seem awful...,"The general consensus in this sub is that grad school is awful and stressful, all professors are evil and academia is too. My time during my PhD has been the best time of my life, I'm happiest I've ever been, I'm excelling. My supervisor is super helpful and great, and whilst not being a big money guy we manage to get stuff done well. Yes there is a lot of work, but I knew what I was taking on. I don't earn as much money as I did when I was working or even close to what my friends do, but I have the best job in the world. Lighten up guys. Grad school is great and if you don't like it, no-one is making you do it. I just wanted to counter the negativity of this sub",19,0,742.0739181957339,GradSchool
Mods Please: Can we please clean up the garbage on this sub??,"I like this subreddit. There's tons of helpful advice for those who actually need it and it's awesome being able to legitimately have solidarity with grad students in other disciplines and schools. 

But seriously, why can't I downvote some of these garbage, borderline spam posts to oblivion?! When you have posts hitting 50-100 upvotes sandwiched between those with 0, which are legitimately garbage, there's something amiss. 

This guy for example: https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/4k0oxo/how_do_i_show_the_process/

Clearly this subreddit is for those who are in research-oriented grad programs, can we specify this more clearly? (like the stuff about grad admissions which helps).

",10,0,1244.1306427327709,GradSchool
Who else thinks grad school is not THAT hard? ,"There are challenges, without a doubt, but I mostly see people here complaining about how tough grad school is, the mental torture, how much weight is gained, how tough it is to secure funding, how hard it is to work with supervisors, etc. etc. 

I actually think it's pretty damn good and not that difficult. I'm surrounded by (mostly) good people that challenge me, lots of opportunities for work/funding (if I'm strategic), manageable hours (50ish a week), great opportunities to present/publish, yadayada. I even had a baby. 

ITT we talk about the good things about grad school! 

**Edit:** (because people asked) 3rd year doc candidate at a tier 1. Full federal funding (~40k/year). Wonderful PI.  

**Edit 2:** I certainly don't mean to disparage those people who have personal or mental health issues that make their programs more challenging, or those who cannot deal with stress well. I wish you all the best. My intention was mainly to point out the positive aspects of grad school that I'm sure I share with a lot of other students. 

**Edit 2.1:** Tier 1 international rankings - I'm not in the US so the funding structures are not the same. I am well funded and that does help alleviate stress. But I did my MA with NO funding while working 3 jobs - and still enjoyed my program and life. 

**Edit 2.2:** Social sciences 

**Edit 2.3:** My partner is also a doctoral student. She took 4 months parental leave. We're going to have another next year. 

**Edit 3:** My most upvoted post of all time!! I appreciate all the support

**Edit 4:** Thanks for the Reddit gold people :) ",63,4,2442.004103380919,GradSchool
"Get out now, don't waste your life","I've spent the last seven years in graduate school.  I got my PhD back in December, from one of the top schools in my field.  During my ""career"" as a graduate student I published around 18 papers, all in top conferences and journals.  I've had several papers decorated with awards, I've submitted multiple patents with industrial partners based on my work, and I've even secured promises of initial funding from most of my collaborators.

Now, over 100 applications to various faculty positions, postdocs, etc, I have **ZERO** offers.

Nothing I've done mattered.

So I've wasted the last 7 years of my life, and the $400,000 in salary differential it cost me to attend graduate school.

Get out now.  You are wasting your life.  All you will be left with is depression and regret.",65,0,2728.3843580105486,GradSchool
"How I feel after a getting a 4.0 in a top 25 school while working a night shift DevOps job, being in a long distance marriage, two RA-ships, and a paper tentatively accepted for a conference all in my first semester of my masters.","Exhausted.

Fucking burnt out beyond the pale. ",14,0,2121.928443658697,GradSchool
Why there's no future in academia/research for you. S.T.E.M. education needs to be reformed.  ,,14,2,2395.098941343882,GradSchool
Being a research assistant and Ph.D. student in Germany... [repost of fffffffuuuuuuuuuuuu],,11,1,2720.2391612512893,GradSchool
This sub is just depressed people who are anal about random shit.,I'll take my most downvoted post as I leave.,8,0,242.13497143647461,GradSchool
"I'm doing well, but I still feel anxious and depressed","I just finished my first quarter of graduate school with two A+s and an A, two accepted papers for presentation at two separate conferences, and my professor telling me that my term paper is potentially groundbreaking research/publishable. I still feel anxious and depressed. I still feel stressed. I still feel inadequate and incompetent. I still feel broken. Maybe it isn't school. Maybe it's just family life or friends or other personal problems. I just wish I could relax and be content. Does it really get easier?",15,0,2121.9082237512894,GradSchool
How the f*ck do people live off the tiny stipends grad school gives (rant),"Seriously. Universities do their best to pay grad students the absolute minimum amount of money possible. Fuck them. I'm seriously about to drop out of my program (before even starting) when I saw how little they're offering me. Seriously, do they think they're doing me a favor? I know what I'm worth and it sure as hell isn't what they're offering. Received outside awards? Okay, sure, they replace what they would pay me otherwise. Such bullshit why the fuck would I bother applying then? For some prestige? Cuz that matters somewhere where every second person has the distinction.

Actually. They try to fuck you over at every opportunity. I think I've just been completely turned away from pursuing a higher degree. There are many other programs which end up with better career options even if you have to take out a loan for the professional program than what I'm doing right now.

How do people live with such bullshit? And why? So I can make 80K/year in 30 years working harder than most people? Fuck that. 

Yes I'm interested in what I signed up for. Yes I knew grad students were not rich - no one is at career start. But this is ridiculous. I think I've just been converted from the mentality of ""do what you love because you'll be doing it for the rest of your life"" to ""fuck that, do what pays, that's all that matters in the end anyway"".

Anyone else sick of this kind of bullshit?",69,4,1246.2426450475857,GradSchool
"POC, Women, Students with Disabilities, LGBTQ Folx—One Thing to Know?","It’s been very hard in my graduate program right now due to systemic patriarchy, racism, and classism working its way out through the cohorts. Worse is, no one’s talking about it, and as a queer first year with several disabilities, I’m scared trying to find the right thing to do.

For those of us in the margins, what’s one thing you wish others knew or would ask you that would make things easier in your work and studies? Whether it be something to make things more comfortable or something literally troubling you? ",5,1,238.1593117142524,GradSchool
I'm a chemical engineering undergraduate and I just got accepted to Stanford for graduate school!!,"I just received an acceptance email from my number 1 school, Stanford. I'll be getting my PhD in chemical engineering come next fall!",5,0,1378.9521010661042,GradSchool
Quote about academia by Orson Scott Card,"""The life he had chosen was a cocoon. Surrounded by a web of old manuscripts and scholarly papers, he would achieve tenure, publish frequently, teach a group of carefully selected graduate students, be treated by a celebrity by the handful of people who had the faintest idea who he was, and go to his grave deluded into thinking he had achieved greatness while in fact he had stayed in school all his life.""- From Enchantment by Orson Scott Card.  ",10,0,1871.8608973624007,GradSchool
It's called an EYE TRACKER.,"IT MEANS I CAN TRACK YOUR EYES. 

WHICH MEANS I KNOW IF YOU PRETENDING TO DO THE EXPERIMENT FOR CREDIT, UNDERGRAD PARTICIPANT IDPL2110!!!!! 

Credit NOT granted!",5,0,997.9412098624005,GradSchool
"FML. I took 4 hours off and went to give blood, get coffee with friends, and then have dinner.","AND NOW I AM BEHIND IN MY EXPERIMENTS!!

don't tell my adviser - he's going to be pissed that I did not Finish My Experiment In One Day. He'll be like ""I don't understand why you could not finish?!"" 

Maybe I will try not to tell him.


I wanted to go have fun, I really did! and it was fun! but... auughh. ",4,0,2419.6324830105486,GradSchool
I am a fucking idiot.,"I am writing the conclusion to a chapter of my dissertation, and I realize I haven't fucking said anything.  Nobody cares about my work, it's shit.  Nobody like me, I'm shit.  I have the option to quit 3 months before I am supposed to defend, and go through life labeled a failure, or I can try to finish and never find a job in my field, because my work is shit, and forever be labelled a failure.  These aren't good options.  I was a fucking idiot to even bother with this, they just want me gone so they can use my space for someone useful.  What a fucking idiot I am. ",20,2,1569.2305964364746,GradSchool
GRE Tip: Write down your scores before you leave your test station,"I tested today and they were very explicit that I wasn't allowed to write down and bring out anything from the test room.  So when my scores were flashed up, I didn't write them down.  I presumed it would be like when I did my GMAT years ago and they'd print out a preliminary report.  However that was not the case.  The guy offered me a post-it to write my scores on after I left the test room - but didn't have them written down on my scratch paper.  Now I'm irritated that I only remember that both scores were above 155 and one was in the 160s, but I can't remember which and now have to wait up to 15 days to get the report.

TLDR: Write down your scores on your scratch paper when you take your GRE.",4,0,2121.8296589364745,GradSchool
Graduate students acting like high school bullies.,"Does anyone else have this problem? Here's what happened and this is pretty rant-like in nature. 

I left lab early yesterday (around 5pm) and I notice that all of our lab tech's stuff, laptop included, was still in the office, and she was still logged on to the computer. This is pretty normal, so I just left. While I was on the road, sun in my eye and in rush hour traffic, I get a text from our lab tech asking me to lock up. I tell her that I had already left when I got to a stop light. She texts back ""Someone has to lock up."" At this point, I was pretty much home and I suggested ""Maybe the janitor will lock up."" because he usually comes around 5:30. A few minutes later, I get a nasty long text from our senior graduate student, who's dating the lab tech, that it was my responsibility to lock up and I was supposed to check if I'm the last one to leave if I weren't sure. I get home, upset at them for being so dramatic about what I thought was a simple misunderstanding. I text them back, ""Noted. That's what I will do from now on. As far as our communication goes, firstly, I'm sure (lab tech) can speak for herself. Second, I do not appreciate being ganged up against like this."" A while later, I get the following text from the senior graduate student, ""Chain of communication is not the issue at hand here. It's the fact that you are transferring the responsibility of making sure the lab is locked up to the janitor. An undergrad might pull that... but you are a graduate student."" 

Yes, I should have locked up, but I did not feel like that simple mistake deserved such a condescending response. They have also apparently done this to multiple other people in the lab and our collaborating lab. 

Edit: Thanks everyone for the replies, even the unpleasant ones. This is an important lesson to learn and I have learned how to handle the situation better. After reading all of your comments, I asked myself why I was so hurt by this behavior and realized that it was because I thought the tech and I were friends. I really thought, and hoped, that she would have come directly to me to talk about these issues. 

Edit 2: Made comments above less over-dramatic, which yes I admit I was. ",51,2,1432.3101334735115,GradSchool
"Kill all the lawyers? More like, kill all the admins",,9,4,2227.13265662166,GradSchool
I don't respect any of my department's faculty anymore.,"Over the past year, I have lost respect for all the faculty in my department. They did not do anything particularly bad. I just sort of realized that their work is unimportant and the feedback they give tends to be trivial. 

Is there any way to get back to respecting my advisors and department? ",13,0,445.33043439943754,GradSchool
Explaining departmental dysfunction to new graduate students in my program.,,3,1,1843.2551334735117,GradSchool
"My reaction when students in coursework complain about how much work they have to do, as a 5th year who just defended my dissertation.",,12,37,731.2276334735117,GradSchool
Can we got some positivity up in here?,"I'm a new grad student starting up this month (woohoo!), and I had always been super excited about it. I have been in frequent contact with most of the faculty I'll be working with as well as current grad students, all expressing how excited they are for the start of the semester and sharing positive experiences all around. 

I never once felt ""grad school dread"" until I joined this subreddit. There is so much negativity here and talking about terrible experiences. I don't suggest toning those stories down because I know many people come here for advice on sticky situations, but I encourage everyone to share more positive experiences here as well. This is generally a first resource for people that are thinking about grad school and being met with a wall of negativity and bad stories isn't exactly encouraging. 

So the next time something great happens to you relating to your grad school experience, share it!",13,1,1897.2032700475859,GradSchool
What Grad School is Like ,,2,1,2714.855226066104,GradSchool
"What the hell, Yale?","Come on Yale grad students. You're making the rest of us look bad with this ""hunger strike"" where you are allowed to eat. The way you negotiate a labor contract is to go on a labor strike and demonstrate your value to the university as workers. 

Also, is it true that the stipend you are striking over is 30K?  If so, that seems like a very generous stipend for the humanities to me.  ",5,0,900.833952917956,GradSchool
Quitting while Black,,0,1,1527.2793348624004,GradSchool
Graduate School: Day One - nearly broke my ankle.,,4,2,2240.911476066104,GradSchool
Students who attend talks but just bring their laptop to do work during the talk - why?,"Why?  Why even attend the talk to just blatantly ignore it and work on your laptop? It makes you look bad to the rest of the people attending the talk. If you were really \~so busy\~ you wouldn't be at the talk in the first place. No one is making you attend the talk. If your program requires x number of talks per semester, you are better off just lying about the talks you attended than going and just fucking around on your laptop through the whole talk.

But really. WHY?

Edits, to clarify: I'm referring to non-mandatory talks with no incentives to attend (ie no food)",23,0,179.87852467721535,GradSchool
Things no one will tell you about grad school,,2,1,1167.1494968994375,GradSchool
I just sent my complete dissertation to my committee. I defend in less than a week. My reaction:,,5,1,1259.264728380919,GradSchool
After getting my first conference acceptance,,2,0,2322.250480695734,GradSchool
NSF GRFP results are up!!,,28,27,562.3493811586968,GradSchool
"[Rant] For those applying to grad programs- when you email a faculty member or a grad student for advice and receive it, a thank-you reply would be nice.","Forgive my wall of angsty text, but I've had so many ""potential"" grad students email me for advice on how to get into this or that program, what the program is like, or do I think they have a shot at getting accepted.

I'm a PhD student, but due to my long CV and my name still on a couple of lab websites, people tend to assume I'm a faculty member or a postdoc. I also comment on twitter and reddit often enough with my real name that students reach out to me privately for advice. I've always taken time to curate each email carefully instead of asking them to google for info or read some website, and my replies are at least a couple hundred words long.

In the past 6 months I've replied at least 3 to 4 students who never so much as reply me with a ""thank you for the information"". Are you fucking kidding me? It's rude as fuck, that's what it is. Have some goddamn manners.
",11,2,1189.2066265290673,GradSchool
WTF Reviewers,"The abysmal grammar and lack of spelling from reviewers is ridiculous. I understand people are busy, but J-H-C if you can't spell ""cell"" correctly what confidence do I have that you took the time to look at my paper and given legitimate feedback? Good comments or bad.

Rant complete.",7,4,2290.1805732883263,GradSchool
I don't think about my field when I'm high?,"This is probably going to seem very stupid but it's been bothering me for a while. I just finished undergrad as a polisci major and I'll be starting a great research masters program in the fall, and I plan to apply to PhDs after that. I'm really passionate about the subject and the methods, and I'm super excited to start grad school.

The problem is, sometimes I just like getting high and ""lost in thought"", maybe reading Wikipedia or watching random lectures on YouTube. But I never end up thinking about polisci: I mostly think about stuff like philosophy of mind or physics. I guess they strike me as more ""urgent"" or universal subjects. I never took a physics or philosophy class in college, and when I'm not high, I lose interest in this stuff pretty easily. But part of me worries that if it's just because I have very superficial knowledge of them, and if I'd had the chance to explore these fields, I would have liked them more than I like polisci. 

Does this happen to anyone else? Do you ever get the feeling that you're almost irreversibly specializing in a certain field but there's so much stuff that you might like even more? Or maybe it's just a healthy thing to be curious about the world?",9,0,61.278814029067206,GradSchool
Got the one friggin dissertation reviewer out of the whole uni who actually read mine,"Now they want all sorts of ridiculous changes to minutiae, changes that will fuck up figures,  changes that will just fucking take a long, loooooong time for stupid crap that no one will ever read anyway.  Why in the HELL did I get cursed with literally the one committee member out of the ENTIRE university system who actually reads a students' dissertation?  Such as waste of time making these changes.  A lot of them are so nitpicky and come off nothing more as a pissing match of knowledge.  

/end rant.  Just want to blow off some steam because I want to get out of grad school so damn bad. So sick of this place. ",0,0,565.9132931957339,GradSchool
How do I find Schools that Value Diversity?,"I'll be applying to clinical psych PhD programs this fall, and am concerned about the diversity and culture of prospective schools. 

Is there a central location or hub where students can discuss the culture of their programs? Other than googling schools home pages and mission statements (which can be misleading) it's hard to find which universities actually value diversity via faculty, scholarships or graduate students. 


Edit: This is sad that people think valuing diversity means low rank program. I'm not looking for that ",13,0,760.2632700475858,GradSchool
I don't understand why PIs are afraid to make reading intensive exams for science/engineering classes?,"TAing a course for undergrads, had to sit in for pre-course discussion, and the PIs said they were hesitant to make exams with a lot of reading, as students who have English as a second language would be at a disadvantage.  This type of thinking absolutely perplexes me, why is this so?  If you choose to study in the USA, then shouldn't you be proficient in English in the first place?  I mean if you get in, your TOEFL scores and SATs should also say you should be able to do the work.  If not, how did you get in in the first place, by cheating?  I don't see why we should cheapen the reputation of a school to appeal a minority body that chose to come here in the first place knowing full well all classes and exams would be entirely in college level English.  ",5,0,1491.9235131031414,GradSchool
How much is undergrad GPA looked at when applying for grad school?,I had a low GPA in undergrad and I am thinking about getting my MBA or seeking other grad school. I was wondering if anyone is aware of certain programs that look more at work experience? Or just other aspects of my as a person rather than my undergrad GPA? ,7,0,1521.3247746772151,GradSchool
Sometimes when I'm stressed I sit behind my furniture and think...,,3,2,1631.3264992142524,GradSchool
What areas of research are you most excited for in 2013!,"Hi /r/gradschool!

I wanted to ask you guys, because it seems like this is where the most active grad student sub-reddit! For the next year, are there any areas of research where you expect breakthroughs and progress? Or, are there any researchers or PI's in particular that you've been watching and are very excited about?

I'm doing research somewhat related to this so all your answers will be extremely helpful for me!",5,1,2480.100480695734,GradSchool
Fratty guys and rich people make me feel sad?,"I had a very terrible time making friends at a SEC school in undergrad and lived like a hermit for two years. I felt really insecure about not being in a fraternity, which is what time it seemed like everything on campus revolved around. I rushed as an upperclassman and didn't get a bid from any of the cool fraternities. I rushed as a junior and a senior, and embarrassed myself pretty thoroughly in not getting a bid the first time by saying I wasn't interested in the one I was interested in, and the second time by being decidedly too old.


Now in grad school, I feel like I am seeing the same things. Cute guys who want to hook up but aren't out very much and don't want to date. I feel insecure looking at guys who have cute flippy hair and wear 80 dollar shirts and are very in shape while I wear clothes that are less impressive and could stand to lose 20 pounds. Even in grad school, nobody wants to hear my opinions in class, it is just like undergrad. Irrespective of getting into a cool grad program, I still see teachers advising us heavily to use our ""fraternity/sorority"" connections to get jobs, and I feel like a loser. I see teachers more impressed with football players than my academic chops, and I just want to cry.


I know it is in real terms silly that I am insecure about this, but it seems like I will always be too poor, too shy, too gay, to fit in.
I'm not the sharpest dressing gay who has Instagram, I'm not a frat bro, and I am awkward at football games.
I want to be true to myself, but I feel like a loser. Even just having a football game at my graduate institution today takes me back to undergrad and makes me feel very sad.


Almost no teacher took any serious interest in me in undergrad or ever encouraged me at all, and I hate it. The program I'm in is filled filled with kids who went to highschool in Switzerland and did undergrad at Georgetown and play tennis, and I feel deeply insecure and grimey because of it. I had a very lonely college experience. It just seems that it is still following me and I still am insecure from it.


When guest speakers come in and say that they started their VC fund with their fraternity Bros or that they went into business with their dad, it leave me feeling despondent. I'll never have that kind of social approval or that kind of cameraderie. Even though most of the people from my undergrad aren't super successful, I still feel bitter, insecure, and jealous of them.


It feels like people voted me down in a pretty ubiquitous way.",13,3,760.3377955105487,GradSchool
About speaking foreign languages in grad school in the US.,"First of all, I think what the Duke's professor did was fucked up, and her wording was clearly overboard.

However, what she complained in her emails is not entirely without merit. I'm sure most of us have experienced something similar to this: several grad students from the same country form an *isolated* social circle, and often talk *loudly* in a *foreign* language *at work*. This is annoying, though I'm annoyed at them talking loudly while I'm working much more than the fact that they use a foreign language (which I mostly don't care).

Perhaps, if the Duke's professor had left out the part about foreign languages, and stressed the part about talking loudly instead, her emails would have been totally reasonable.",21,9,261.6538024549931,GradSchool
when I'm trying to figure out confusing and messy data,,0,4,1777.1149714364744,GradSchool
"Women, how often do you experience mansplaning in your field?",I’m asking because my roommate and I both work in similar fields... and he mansplans things to me constantly. Even after I say “I know” or finish his sentence. ,25,6,249.71226310314128,GradSchool
Fiance's advisors want him to apply to postdoc EVERYWHERE. I don't want to live ANYWHERE.,"So I'm kinda looking for advice, wondering if anyone has dealt with this before. I've been with my fiance for getting on 11 years now, and he's about a year out from finishing his PhD. It's about time for him to start applying for jobs. 

Now, I have always made a point not to interfere with him and his advisors. I want him to finish his PhD, want him to do well, etc. 

His advisors are pressuring him to apply everywhere under the sun and he thinks he should do it, because, you know, they're his advisors and they know what they're talking about.  

I'm not in academia. But.  

I don't want to live in Alabama. I don't want to live in Idaho. I don't think that's unreasonable. He says just because he applies doesn't mean he has to take the job, but what else is the literal point? 

To me it seems like ""Don't apply to alabama state if you're not willing to move to alabama"" is just... axiomatic. He says, ""but what if I don't get a job offer anywhere I want to move?"" To which I reply, ""let's cross that bridge when we come to it.""  

He's getting his PhD in math, btw. 

ETA: 

My fiance and I have been equally bewildered at some (not all) of the advice given, and he has a question for anyone who cares to answer it

>""In your mind, does my desire for a tenure-track professorship take precedence over my fiancee's desire to live in a place where she will be happy, and if so why?""",41,4,481.12615199203015,GradSchool
TheGradCafe,"Do you guys know about www.thegradcafe.com?  You can post stuff on their forum and, more importantly, people post their admission statuses across various disciplines.  It really helped me when I was looking into grad schools.  You can get a sense of GPAs and competition, and of course keep clicking refreshes to see if anyone has been accepted/asked to interview yet.",8,0,1716.4107468994375,GradSchool
"We made a parody of Ke$ha's ""Tik Tok"" to show life as a PhD student (in chemical engineering at Cornell).",,2,3,1764.926915880919,GradSchool
MRW I Got My First Ph.D. Acceptance,,7,1,1719.1078996772153,GradSchool
How to Create an Appealing Resume When You Have No Professional Experience?,,2,2,2061.2497052327712,GradSchool
Advisor doesn't push me,"First year phd student. My advisor doesn't push me to get things done by deadlines, and I have a hard time working without them. Has anyone else been in a situation like this? how did you fix it? i've missed like 3 conference paper deadlines, and may miss a deadline for the top conference in our field soon. it seems like there are always a million projects starting up, but we never get around to finishing them because there are no ""real"" deadlines in my mind (since we can always submit to another conference). Any help?
",77,0,2411.2353996772154,GradSchool
Forced participation during class ruining motivation,"Just a short rant.

I know that discussions and participation are vital to class especially with less people. My latest evening class has 7 students and my professor loves pressuring us into discussions and doing useless learning activities to pass the time, which often involve moving around the room and having to present something to the class with short notice. It’s exhausting. 

We take quizzes every class and we have to grade each other’s. It feels like I’m in high school again. 

He chooses us randomly to lead discussions which makes my blood boil as I’m someone who likes to participate on my own terms and has previously struggled with speaking anxiety.

 I get easily distracted on my laptop in class but browsing the internet helps me stay awake and focused even if that sounds like it doesn’t make sense. I need to be doing something with my hands in class ie typing notes or scrolling, but at the same time I actively participate and pay attention. Idk I just feel like we are all adults and if someone wants to spend hundreds of dollars to scroll on the internet in class that should be my right lmao. 

I’m genuinely interested in the class material but sometimes being randomly forced to participate gives me flashbacks of high school and I thought we were over this. I dread this class every week and I shouldn’t have to.",17,1,40.168790880919055,GradSchool
Am I the only one who doesn't have imposter syndrome?,"Practically every post or blog that I watch about a new phd student talks about how real and rampant imposter syndrome is. And I'm not dismissing that it is. But I feel like I'm the only one who doesn't have it. I worked my ass off all high school and undergrad and I've never once felt like I didn't deserve to be in my program (2nd year now). I definitely know I have a lot more to learn, and I still get impressed by others chemistry or molecular bio skills, or jealous of my labmate/worried about my projects when they are close to publishing and I'm not (same year) but I know that's how research goes and that the field takes a lot of diverse specialty to move forward.  I'm just curious how many other people feel this way and what you think the difference in mindset is. ",11,0,296.02325847351165,GradSchool
"Putting ""NSF Graduate Research Fellow"" on business cards/email signature?","Hey all, 

I just found out that my advisor is going to be paying for business cards for everyone in the lab — is it tacky to reference NSF on a business card/email signature? 

One one hand, I can see how it comes off as pretentious... but at the same time it *is* a (somewhat) prestigious award, and if you're handing out business cards at a conference I think academics would be impressed/think a little more highly of you. ",19,2,856.0817538438821,GradSchool
University is asking for Volunteers for a poverty simulation. (This was posted in another Sub I frequent and it isn't me).,,8,0,625.3378649549932,GradSchool
I fucked up,Gre on Monday. NSF grfp on Tuesday. Haven't prepared/worked on either. It's gonna be a fun weekend :),26,0,724.8628649549931,GradSchool
Want to know how f****d I am to apply for Grad school,"I have completed by bachelor in mechanical engineering from a premier college in india (so international student) but my gpa is low ~2.75 on a scale of 4, I have good high school grades, have a lot of extra curricular activties, have good relations with profs at the undergrad school (so hoping good LORs), have done a few trainings in factories and internships. Thats about me.


I want to get in for MS in Industrial Engineering in some public US institution. So i want to know how messed up my chances are getting into grad school and what can i do to make up for it? any credible certification program i can enroll for in the US (i have a valid US B2 visa) or should i work now and put grad school aside for now and apply later? All advise in the most honest and brutal way would be appreciated


PS: I'm a bit mind f****d after reading the related posts 

https://www.reddit.com/r/gradadmissions/comments/25gmig/a_somewhat_notgentle_guide_to_getting_into_grad/

https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/i6tah/iama_graduate_school_admissions_coordinator_ama/
",16,0,1371.5821242142524,GradSchool
Found a site that is helping distract me while I wait to hear back about my application. ,,2,0,2830.0314181957337,GradSchool
The fact that my marijuana usage has increased by multiple times and has a strong positive relationship with the amount of time I have spent as a grad student. Correlation or causation? I suspect causation. 🤔🔬💊💊💊🚬🚬,,4,0,624.8672283809191,GradSchool
Undergrads Today Are the Worst: A TA's Confession,,35,4,1645.3125756031413,GradSchool
"May be a slightly taboo question, but I thought reddit, if anywhere, could answer.","I read once that Martin Luther said that he preached because he just simply couldn't do anything else. I think that's really great, but I haven't had that experience with an occupation.

I do love to learn. Even better, I love to learn new things, that maybe no one else has learned yet. I love talking to smart people about the things they like to think about. The idea of contributing even just a pinprick to the expansion of human knowledge sounds like nirvana. 

HOWEVER, I'm not sure I care what I study. This is a problem. I have some interests, to be sure, but many. And I think I'd be more interested in hearing what you would recommend without knowing what they are. Plus, this way, I can ask the question for all the other poor suckers out there like me. 

I know the academic job market is brutal. In which disciplines is it less brutal? 

TL;DR: I want to research, write, and teach, about something. Anything. Recommendations? 


",13,3,2136.647228380919,GradSchool
"Professors, it is unethical to still accept Ph.d. Students.","Buckle up. This is gonna be a controversial post.

Why should they stop accepting ph.d. students?  Because you KNOW what the outcome will be! It’s the same every time unless you have a guaranteed superstar or have fallen into a pool of money while simultaneously discovering a crazy long thread of breakthrough after breakthrough!

Professors know that their students are not going to end up in academia. Hell, if they end up in research at all they’re probably going to hate their lives. 

Why do students do it? Because they genuinely *love* science and are naive enough to:

(1) think they can make discoveries and 

(2) think people get to do good science just because they work hard, put in the effort and really try to make it work.

Why do professors accept Ph.d. Students? Because they’re necessary to keep the house of cards from falling down. Professors obviously don’t have time to do research. Master’s students are familiarizing with the topic and working on relatively short term projects. Undergrads barely know what the fuck is going on.

Ph.d students are the lynchpin in the whole system! Unfortunately, as soon as they’re done, the professor simply gets a new student to replace them and continue doing ludicrous amounts of work in exchange for basically nothing, but the student shows up bright eyed and bushy tailed because “it was always their dream to be a scientist!” 

Professors end up stealing a lot of people’s time and lives / livelihoods because they have to exploit students in order to stay afloat. I find it hard to blame them because you’d be hard pressed to find a professor that doesn’t admit the system is completely fucked up and not working, but at the same time when a capable student walks into their office, more often than not professors will let them stumble onto that path of no return without saying anything because they need it to survive.

I’m ready for the downvotes now, go ahead.",68,90,92.12445060314128,GradSchool
"I defended my dissertation some days ago. After recovering from copious amounts of booze, this is how I feel now.",,3,32,1954.9717075475858,GradSchool
Back to School: Avoiding the crushing consequences of studying too hard,,1,4,1367.4024830105486,GradSchool
My heart is broke. I feel so hopeless. I don't know what to do. I need advice.,"ugh how do I start this, it’s kind of long, sorry about that…a lot happened. It started a year ago when I was looking for a supervisor to do my honours thesis with for my undergraduate. I went back to the guy who I use to work with in first year (I left during that time because the graduate student I was working with was lazy and told me to just get married and have kids instead of doing science). I went back because everyone made me feel bad about leaving I just wanted any project. I didn't have a project for a month and kinda just did random work, I ended up working on this list of proteins that this newly hired prof produced during his post doc the previous year. I found something interesting and wrote a proposal and it became my thesis project. By this time it was September and I wanted to start the wet lab stuff for it, I would look up assays, plasmids, reagents and constantly talk to my main supervisor (by this time the prof who produced the list became my secondary supervisor as well) about it, he would just tell me to look up more stuff and send it to him but he would never answer back and never actually help me start (I never worked in a biology lab before, I asked to be trained but he never did). It was November and I got really stressed so I gave up and went to the other guy, he took me under his wing in a way...he had no one, I became his student (though he never called me such, I was always the other guys student and the other guy would always call me the new guys student). The man was brilliant, easy to get along with, caring, he was extremely young (he was 30, I was 21) so I felt like I could relate to him more. At first he seemed to not really know how to be a actual professor, he still seemed like a student in a way...we use to talk a lot, not about science but random stuff, he would tease me, make jokes and I would do the same. After 3 weeks he left me on my own to do my work, it went well the first few weeks...then I started getting stressed. When I would ask for help he would say no because he already showed it to me once, I would panic. My friends would always talk to him about science and impress him with how smart they were; when I tried he would seem uninterested so we would talk about other things. We started talking about publishing one day and I suggested a project idea from the advancement of my thesis project, he said to send him a writing sample...he followed up with asking me if I wanted to write a review; I said yes and started the process. Half way through I found myself getting burned out, always tired and worried of what he thought of me (I spent 2 weeks not eating from how stressed I was, he didn't know and would always hate it if he found me sleeping). He gave me a student to train, I got a little more overwhelmed as now I had my undergraduate classes, my thesis (which was not giving me results no matter how many times I tried, and he would always question how I could fuck up so badly), a student, a paper, and a whole lab to take care of (while his other part time students came in to do small work under him, they never really replaced the materials they used or put things back were they belonged...so a lot of stuff got damaged and I had to take care of everything and make sure everything was stocked or clean or the garbage was properly disposed), I also had to supervisor any student who showed up and asked for help when he wasn't there or was in a meeting and forgot. He would always ask me why I didn't seem interested in my project, I just thought I was shit...even without results though I knew that what I said in my proposal was right. My friend told me to talk to him about how stressed I was getting, I didn’t want to because of my fear of him using it against me. I told my friend to o talk to him for me, he did, he explained everything about my life (including my shitty home life) and how I have a deep fear of disappointing him. We talked after, he said he wouldn’t use it against me, that I could be free to do anything I wanted, that I didn’t have to worry about being professional because graduate school is the most unprofessional thing, that he would always be there for me, that I could talk to him about anything and he won’t use it against me, that when I’m his graduate student everything would be better, that I can act any way I want in his lab (leading up to this I would always ask him about graduate school, he would always say yes and tell me I’m a good writer and that I have good ideas). It came time to get my main supervisor involved, I needed antibodies and a solution which he had, I only needed a small amount but he would always tell me to tell the other guy to buy his own and tell his other students that I can’t use it because I’m not his student. I got really stressed, it went on for months and months, I just wanted to use the solution and not deal with any BS. The other guy started questioning if I was using it right, I said yes, he said that when he talked to my main supervisor that he would always say I’m free to use it, so why was I saying different. We started getting into fights, my anxiety got worse and worse, I would question everything, push everyone away, and constantly be in a bad mood, I got so scared of doing anything, being questioned on anything, my experiments got slower and slower, I stopped caring about the state of the lab, and he got more annoyed. I had a anxiety attack, following weekend he came with me to the lab, we gossiped about people. Started talking what people say about him, ended up with me telling him he’s attractive (I kept telling him I didn’t want to say it because it was unprofessional, but he kept bugging me about it)…he teased me about it after. It came time to ask for graduate school again, first meeting he got really aggressive. I never saw him that way before, I got upset, he said I was lazy and not interested in my project, that I always seemed upset, that I don’t do experiments by myself, that I don’t ask for help, that I am not like his other students who send him proposals for projects or new ideas daily or talk with him about science for hours. Meeting two was with my main supervisor, I was told that I would fail graduate school, that my GPA was to low (I have a B average), that even though I had three jobs at the time on top of my lab stuff I didn’t do sports or volunteer with the science center (I just didn’t like the ppl, I’m not the super outgoing type), that I am unprofessional, that I am not interested, that I am a rollarcoaster of emotions, that I didn’t advance my project, that I don’t want to be in science, that I romanticized my project . I cried for days and days. I lost my project, I loved it so much. During those meetings I would tell them all my ideas about how to advance it, they would just say I was desperate. The new guy would never talk, it was only the main, he got mad once during one meeting and told me that I didn’t actually love the project, just the idea of it. The other guy would yell too, he would get upset at how I would always talk about one supervisor (the new one) and said he was not like the rest, to which the main responded that the new is no different . I told them that if it was my GPA then I could stay an extra term and fix stuff up, the new guy said I would always be welcomed into his lab, the other guy said no. After each meeting the new guy would comfort me, talk to me for an hour or so about his life in grad school, his struggles – a specific time was when he took my hand and told me it was going to be ok and walked with me to the bus stop.. I found it weird. Another time I told him that I didn’t care anymore, that I had enough data without the wet lab stuff to write (he always would tell me this before when I would worry), I came to say my goodbye, he stopped me and said that he would hope that I wouldn’t give up so easily. I continued to work on the project, I hated everything. Everyone started rumors, making jokes, calling me a burden on the new supervisor. I felt like cancer. Before I would always come in at 8 am and start up the lab, now I was waking up at 8 and coming in at 1pm, not caring, fucking up my own experiments, constantly apologizing to him (he started to say its ok and after a while changed it to don’t be sorry). I ended up dropping 2 of my classes due to the stress, the new guy got mad, I got really depressed. I later found out that my main supervisor thought I was going to kill myself, he contacted a lawyer/phycologist for help…but never informed me. I found out through my friend who he ambushed during a meeting. I hated going on, the rumors got worse, I got isolated, I kept on having fights with the new guy; he always compared me to his other students and said why they were better. I got results in the end, made my poster. The new guy said that he won’t see me on the day I present; he spent all his time around me. He day before he freed up a space in front of his office, told me it can belong to me if I want to give him my poster or he can put up his papers there. After my presentation, him and my main where talking…the main told him that he should put up his post doc poster in that space, he said he was thinking about putting his papers there, I asked if he still wanted the poster, he helped me put it up in front of his office. I asked him if he would take me for a class to finish my major during the summer, he said yes, he said we could start the paper from before again and publish. I tried to apologize to him for everything, he told me to not be sorry. 
During summer I met up with him to go over the outline, at this point I gave up on going to graduate school) I had previously asked the new guy for help with writing letters of intent and emailing other people, but never actually sent out those emails) and decided to apply to the supervisor position (previously in the meetings about graduate school he said that would be a good alternative). I met with him and went for coffee, he asked me if I applied to graduate school yet, I told him that I gave up on that because he and my main said that I was shit and would fail, so I was going to apply be supervisor at my job. He told me I misunderstood them that I should apply and asked how much I would make. I said only $14/hour. I told him that I feel bad for what happened, that I feel like the cancer in his life, he seemed so sad that I was referring to myself as that and asked why – I told him how people would make jokes about him sitting in his office and wondering why he took me, how ppl always got mad at me for demanding to much of him by asking him for help with graduate school. He told me that I should be proud of my project, that I did a good job, that im way to hard on myself. While on a walk back to his office, he asked me to apply to graduate school, I said that my GPA is bad, he said that its not and it doesn’t really matter because it’s the reference I get that counts, I said I won’t have good references either. He tried to guilt me by saying that he just wasted his time looking over my letters of intent and helping me write proper emails for other profs. He said we can meet again when I start working on the paper, either at our neighbourhood coffee shop ( I live close to him) or his place (that he can pick me up and have a chill day) I started to apply. I got two places. He told me to send him the supervisors names so he could help me pick which one is best, he sent me a long email outlining the pros and cons of each one. We met the week after (on a weekend outside of school), he asked how my interview went with one of the potential supervisors. He got mad that I told her that I wished I had more help in my previous lab, he told me that I didn’t appreciate him and that only time will tell how I actually speak about him to others (my friends think I put him on a pedestal too much and kiss the ground he walks on and think he can do no wrong). He got really mad, told me I was wasting his time. That he wants to see me be successful because I’m worth more than my current 12/hour. Told me I’m to independent and hate getting help…that I didn’t do that great of a job on my thesis. I told him how a friend of mine told me that my main said that the reason he was the only one talking was because he was trying to protect him from me, he got mad and said that he can’t lose his job and that I didn’t now the consequences of my actions. I found it so weird how before he required protection, but now was  meeting me outside of school at a coffee shop (it’s a really empty place though) and offered to have me over at his place. I cried that night so much. I hated myself. I met him a month after again at the same coffee shop around 8pm, again I found it so weird how my main said he required protection from me but now was willing to meet outside of school at a weird time. Things went better, he told me he didn’t read the stuff I sent him about the paper, we spent an hour and half talking about random stuff, grad school and gossiped about people (We did this a lot), he kept telling me I would be fine and that I would be successful. He talked about his lab, I made a joke about how come I never got to do fun lab stuff when I was there.  He got mad when I said I still think he hates me, asked what he has to do to show me he doesn’t (his reference alone allowed me to get into another lab). He asked me why I have savings, why I don’t just quit my job if I have savings…that I always seemed tired and upset and his current student don’t. Told me I’m a colourful person, in that he thinks I lied to him to benefit me in the situation, when I asked him when he thought I did this, he said he didn’t know. I was very confused because I never did lie to him, and if I did, I would tell him about it and why I picked to do so; usually it was to cover up or protect someone from another lab. He asked if I wanted a ride home, I said no…..we talked some more, he asked again about the ride…I said no again since my sister was working close by and almost done her shift. I changed the paper to his liking and sent it to him, too him a week to respond (he would never respond to my emails during summer until now) and he wanted to meet at school instead. He asked me to go to his office, I said I couldn’t because of my anxiety as it gets worse in that building (I told him this previously, but he still offered his office as a place to meet). We met in the building next door; he said that so far the paper that good and he wants to give me full control of it. I got him a thank you gift (a $300 crystal of his favorite protein). He asked when I’m leaving to the new lab and if I want to come to his lab BBQ at his place, I said I get anxiety. He asked if I want to meet his lab members, I said I cannot go to that building, he tried to guilt me by asking if I missed my student and wanted to see him again…I said that I saw him earlier that wee as we are now friends. He told me that he wants me to get help for my anxiety because I deserve it, that I’m really smart and shouldn’t regret not doing stuff in my life. That I would ill it in graduate school and the he didn’t lie about me to my new supervisor. He seemed concerned when I brought her up, told me to make sure she is treating me right and paying me right and listens to me (he did this before at the other meeting). He started to talk about my project and how he was able to reproduce my results, I told him it gives me anxiety to hear about it (during the term when I was in destress, I asked him if he would tell me about my project during summer…he said he was a reasonable man so sure and to email him if he forgets…I never asked during summer and he never brought it up till this moment). When I left he asked me again if I wanted to come and meet his lab, I said I can’t. He said that he I get my anxiety under control to email him about my project….if I wanted. 
My anxiety got worse. Its now constant. I can’t live my life anymore. I question if there is even a point in going to graduate school. Why he changed his mind about me. Why he never stood up for me with my main if this is actually how he feels. Why is he doing this now, when before he would constantly compare me to his students and say how wonderful they were. I wonder if I should email him about my project. I cry every day; 6 to 8 times. It took me months to get over my project. I loved it so much. I feel so numb. I feel I will never find such happiness again. I feel like I will fail. Why he is willing to meet with me outside of school when before according to the other guy he needed protection from me. Sometimes I wonder what it would feel like to just give up and die, maybe I could have a restart. I felt so dead until I found a new supervisor. I would cry every day, feel so numb, like I was dead. Why would I want to meet his lab, he always told me how he wanted a group of happy people, why would he want me there to ruin his happiness with my sadness. I know no one from the lab, it would be embarrassing to go to his lab stuff. I don’t know what to do, I feel so hopeless. I cant sleep. I just cry. Its hard for me to get medication for anxiety since I don’t have a family doctor, but I am looking into concealing…idk what to do…any advice…sorry for it being so long.",12,7,835.4671242142524,GradSchool
Women in academia are judged on their appearance.,,26,8,1815.540631158697,GradSchool
Would You Ever Let Your Papers Be Published By Nature? (or an equally prominent publisher in your field),"I'm sure most of you are thinking: **""WHO** **WOULDN'T?""**
Well... I woudn't... Why?

Log out of whatever academic (highly technical term inbound) ""thingy"" provides you with an all access pass to any paper you could possibly want.

Now go find a paper that tickles your fancy

Now look at how much it is going to cost you to read that paper and whip out your credit card.... Go on, you want to read it don't you? Maybe it has something vital to the research you are doing right now!

HEY! WHAT ARE YOU DOING!? you are logging back into whatever all access pass your university provides, aren't you? OF COURSE YOU ARE! **""WHO** **WOULDN'T?""**

Why would I ever go through the hassle that I'm sure comes with a Nature publication while also knowing that NO ONE outside of academia will EVER read it? 

""But it looks great on a resume"": Look, if you are gonna hire me based on who published my papers, and not the content of them- I don't want to work for you. 

""But the university pays for it, why do you care?"": do you know how much they pay? ~ **$6,000,000** ANNUALLY. And there are how many universities in the United States alone? WTF DO THEY NEED ALL THIS MONEY FOR? 
Are we funding some massive coke addiction? seriously... HOW has this landscape not drastically changed for the better by now? 

**TLDR**:

How do you feel about the costs of journal access?

How would you resolve the system?

Would you turn down a prominent publisher in favor of say... arXiv",22,0,1015.9122862512894,GradSchool
How my studying for the verbal section of the GRE has been going...,,13,22,2350.80833949203,GradSchool
The challenge of being transgender on the academic job market (x-post /r/TransSpace),,2,0,1187.2430617142525,GradSchool
How exactly are you supposed to 'write a paper'?,"I'm an undergrad, final year. Trying to beef up my college application.

Like what do you even 'write a paper' on? What if someone else has already published something similar? What do I do once I've written the paper? Like submitting to IEEE and other journals?

* For computer science",9,0,1204.7697978253634,GradSchool
Applying to Anthro PhD programs with blue hair?,"Hi everyone. As the title suggests: this fall I will be applying to Anthropology PhD Programs (finishing up my MA now). I am wondering if I should buy a wig to hide my hair during the interviews. I am applying to a few Ivy League schools and a few non-Ivy League schools. So far I am getting mixed answers: some say ""It's anthropology! No worries!"" while others are saying ""No; change the hair"". 

Thoughts?",17,0,1536.0006311586967,GradSchool
Your PhD Matters,,4,0,1722.4709783809192,GradSchool
When I suggested increasing the newly imposed pay to print limit for graduate students this was the response (in blue) ........,,4,1,2246.2243348624006,GradSchool
Don’t say the “U” word,"Howdy!

Just a friendly reminder: 
If you are really frustrated about your hours in grad school and want to start organizing with your peers, stay the fuck away from the prying eyes of the admin & their board of directors! 

Start by complaining with each other, then try to work out some demands y’all agree on to start off with thinking about working towards! DON’T SAY THE “U” word or act like yr acting in concert, even, even though this is technically protected by the NLRB (nat’l labor relations board), but guess who’s in ctrl of that shit these days... 

This may take a year or more. Think of it as those slivers of therapy apptmts that keep u from killing yrself. (Sometimes literally. Though if it does get to this point, LEAVE THIS PLACE! The world isn’t so impossible *everywhere*)   (:

In the meantime, if u or any buddies who r holding their shit together slightly better have a sec, e-mail someone who works for a union. Teachers union staff or grad union staff even if in a different state can probs help point you in the right direction. Explain yr sitch. Say there is interest in doing something about it. Ask for help/ resources. Learn about how this process works. See if the local IWW chapter has a class or advice they can offer, too. 

While yr slowly thinking and changing yr life and relationships for the better about this taking-action and dealing-with-yr-problems approach, 
Don’t say the “U” word! 

You can be organizing in concert without telling anyone outside of yr most trusted fellow-frustrateds that this “trying to do things about our problem” is sometimes called “unionizing”. You want a trained business officer to be ready to do negotiations and probably the legal help of a larger union once you’ve got all the cards signed because there could be pushback regardless of “federal law”.

Edit: Location: USA",6,1,254.80258717721534,GradSchool
"No one talks about failure much... under 4 min vid on why my paper was rejected, and how you can avoid these pitfalls",,0,1,601.3849135661043,GradSchool
"I don't want to live in the United States anymore, but with my degree I feel like staying and getting a graduate degree is my only option","I will graduate in May with a bachelor's in Biochemistry. The degree isn't too bad for employment here in the U.S. It's not as lucrative as computer science or IT, but it's not like I majored in communications or something like that. 

Simply put, I no longer want to live in a country where dying in a mass shooting is a real possibility, where people get, at most, 2 weeks of vacation a year, where health insurance is prohibitively expensive for most people, where driving is the only way of getting around, where the chief scientist of the USDA was almost a *talk radio host* with no scientific training, where the president is an authoritarian compulsive liar, and where the lawmakers are about to tax graduate students out of grad school. However, with a bachelors degree, I feel like my options for living abroad are limited. What would be the consequences of enrolling in a PhD program with the intention of leaving after candidacy exams with a Master's degree?",7,0,687.2363487512895,GradSchool
I failed in my undergraduate career. I want to make my graduate career a resounding success. Please help.,"My GPA in undergrad is so bad.  It's barely at the cutoff for graduation.  I graduated in 2015 with a bachelor's degree in biology with a 2.0 GPA.  I started working as a QC analyst for a big pharma company soon after where I am currently working now.  Unfortunately, my company does not sponsor employees for masters programs.  

I am looking into a few masters programs in biology and bioinformatics but I'm concerned about how my poor undergraduate performance is going to hold me back since most of the programs require a 3.0 minimum undergraduate GPA.  

Anyone here get into grad school after absolutely bombing undergrad?  Any advice would be appreciated.",11,1,1023.2421473624005,GradSchool
Help! Should I pick Cornell or University of Chicago,"Update: Thank you for all the comments, I am so grateful for all of your advice! After a lot of soul searching, crying, and a two hour phone conversation with my undergraduate adviser, I have decided to attend Cornell! I think I realized that while I was initially attracted to Chicago, I would be happier overall, with all things considered, being closer to my family and in a less urban environment. Plus a huuuugggeee weight has been lifted off my shoulders.  And I'm confident great things will follow! Thanks again guys!

Today is the last day for me to choose which grad school to go to for PhD in Biochemistry/Molecular Biology and I've been agonizing over it for weeks. Both schools give similar stipends, full tuition paid and health benefits. UChicago is 800 miles from home, my family, and boyfriend of 4 years. However, the research there aligns perfectly with my interests. I am also from a very rural area and went to undergrad close to home and would have a lot of trouble adjusting to city life, crime, public transportation etc. Cornell is a great school as well and although my research interests don't match there perfectly I think I would be okay there. The transition to grad school would be fairly easy, I would be able to have my car and all of my current belongings and be able to see my family and my boyfriend every other week if I wanted. Is there anyone with a somewhat similar situation that could give unbiased advice? Much appreciated!",21,5,1644.2828881031414,GradSchool
Can I get into a top-tier school with a low GPA?,"I am applying to grad schools by the end of the semester and still narrowing down exactly which programs to apply to. I have been doing research for two years and my PI believes I have the aptitude for prestigious schools like Stanford or MIT. The thing is, I've been a terrible student during college and my GPA reflects that. I have a 2.9 at the moment and some schools mention you shouldn't even apply with a GPA under 3. My research will most likely be a big selling factor, I will have two first author and a number of second author papers as well as solid recommendation letters. Do you think I have any chance at getting into these schools or should I not even try?",12,0,9.102656621659795,GradSchool
The perceived political atmosphere of academia makes me concerned to go to grad school,"I graduated with a BS in Bioengineering in May of this year and have been working since June. I am strongly considering pursuing a PhD in Chemical Engineering with some biological research involved this upcoming Fall semester, I am working right now just to save up some money.

&#x200B;

I'm not a fan of political debate, I think it's important to be aware of what's happening in the political sphere but so much of what you see on any news station is just people beating each other up because they stand on opposite sides of a line drawn in the sand. I consider myself a moderate conservative by nature and sympathetic to libertarianism, despite harboring a rather large dislike of many of the leaders of the Republican party and not taking libertarians too seriously on account of some of their members being almost stereotypically and cartoonishly anarchist, among other things.

&#x200B;

My personal experience at my alma mater, as well as credible research ([https://www.nature.com/news/academia-must-resist-political-confirmation-bias-1.21057](https://www.nature.com/news/academia-must-resist-political-confirmation-bias-1.21057) & [https://www.nature.com/news/academia-must-resist-political-confirmation-bias-1.21057](https://www.nature.com/news/academia-must-resist-political-confirmation-bias-1.21057), to name only two sources) gives me reason to believe that I will be pilloried as a bigot and a moron for having these viewpoints. I am legitimately afraid that there will be consequences to speaking my mind in an academic atmosphere.

&#x200B;

Are my concerns valid? Has anyone had similar concerns or experiences as mine?",10,0,270.032841806845,GradSchool
"Recovering from a really, really bad GPA","Hi everyone! I want to go to grad school for education so I can become a teacher. Fairly straightforward, right? Not when it took you a total of 8 years and 3 school go finally graduate with a 2.25. 

Perhaps it might strike some of you as ironic that I would even want a career in academia. That's perfectly sensible. What you find folks of Reddit don't know, however, is that I'm a different person now. No, I didn't find Jesus. I just got my shit together. But sadly, terms like ""spiritual revival"" and ""change of direction"" don't often appear on college applications. 

So what are things I can do RIGHT NOW to shine on paper and convince a roundtable of admissions counselors why I am not the person I used to be?",14,1,674.0234899549931,GradSchool
This is grad school.,,1,1,1399.8621473624005,GradSchool
"162 Verbal, 157 Quant on the GRE, what extent will this help my 2.96 undergraduate overall GPA?","I could also retake it and probably score higher but I don't think even aa 165, 165 or 170, 170 will get me into a top tier graduate program...

I was thinking a Masters in Public Policy",12,0,1405.846429769808,GradSchool
Should I go to grad school? (college piano performance major),"Hey, I'm new to this subreddit, I haven't even lurked much so bear with me. Let me know if I would be better off posting this in a music subreddit. Also, sorry this is long. Thanks in advance.

I am currently a junior in college majoring in piano performance. I have played piano almost all my life and have been teaching piano the last seven-ish years.

So basically I'm trying to decide if I want to make a career out of teaching, and whether or not that means grad school. A masters would give me more experience, training, and a ""mini-expert"" level of expertise. But I'm worried about grad school in general because:
1. I love learning, but I have a tendency to get burned out
2. I work hard, but I'm terrified of the entrance exams
3. I got all As in my theory courses but my college is a tiny liberal arts university and I'm not sure they're on par with other schools.

Let alone grad school, teaching is weird for me because I'm not good with kids, nor am I particularly fond of them. I'm also shy and not assertive (I'm trying to work on it). However, I have had two students that I have loved to teach; I'll call them Mary and John. Mary is 17 and was my first student and I'm still teaching her. John is 14 and I've had for about a year. Basically they're two very well-behaved kids with a willingness to learn.

If I had a studio full of Johns and Marys, I would teach full time, in a heartbeat.

But then there are the kids I struggle with.  I have two eight-year-old twin students that are more of a challenge for me. They'll tell me they hate a piece, play-argue with me, or pretend they don't know where their books are. Luckily it doesn't get too out of hand but it keeps me on my toes. I'm not entirely sure they enjoy practicing either. I guess it's just kid things...
I've been teaching with one of my piano professors in her home studio. She has a couple of Marys and Johns but most of the kids are a struggle for me. The other thing is she likes to teach in groups - she'll teach one student in her living room and I'll have two in a back room doing a rotation of scales, theory, technique, and/or rep. So that probably doesn't help much. Kids will complain, not listen to me, tell me I'm mean, beg to do something else, try to manipulate me, talk amongst themselves instead of doing theory, and so on. I don't know if it's just this particular set of kids or if it's just kid things. I wouldn't say they're bad kids, but like I said I'm just not assertive and I'm not good with kids anyway. (Disclaimer: I'm not trying to complain about this job and I've learned a lot and gained experience from it.)

The bottom line is: I just feel like I'm getting all this experience and I've been buying and gathering some of the materials that I would need to start a studio. I'm making connections with my professors and even a few fellow piano teachers in the area. It would make sense to teach and I feel as if I don't end up teaching then I'll have been wasting my time/money/energy.
I also feel like if I get my masters and then decide to do something else, I'll be over-qualified for anything else I decide to do.
BUT if I wait to decide on a masters or not, it's going to be hard to get back into the swing of things (theory skills and rep for an audition).

PS I am also getting a minor in English that I also don't know what to do with. Writing has been a strong point for me but that's another story.

TL;DR: I'm a Junior piano major in college wondering if I should go to grad school to pursue piano teaching. I'm worried about different aspects of grad school plus I'm not good with kids (but I have succeeded in teaching a couple of good, well-behaved students). I'm also thinking that I would be wasting time if I were to choose a different career path later.",2,0,1464.7985478253634,GradSchool
Current NSF GRFP Fellow here! AMA about applications!,"Hi r/Gradschool,

It's that time of year again where 15k+ (Americans anyways) of us will be trying to figure out how to make the government give us lots of money. I want to reassure you all that you can totally win this thing even if you have a less that perfect academic record! If you're on the fence about applying you ABSOLUTELY should! Not only is it an excellent way to think about your research, but who knows, you could win a lot of money! 

Feel free to ask me anything about the applications, statements, how to play to your strengths and to shore up your weaknesses in time for a submission.

Good Luck!",38,0,1496.3809089364745,GradSchool
Statement of Purpose for Graduate school,"I've written SOP for Engineering graduate program. Since schools appreciate to first get your SOP reviewed by any native speaker, I'm facing great difficulty to get it reviewed by any intellectual person whose native language is English. Any help regarding this? If there's any professional who is eager to help? Thanks.",2,0,1774.4544043068452,GradSchool
Comp Sci and comm double major...what sort of grad school opportunities are out there for me?,"Well, I'm slightly lying considering I graduated with an Information Science BS with a BA in Media Studies, but I'm currently a software developer working for a bank. Yes, the finance field sucks my soul dry. I'd like to explore my original passion where software and entertainment intersect. Videogames are cool and I've worked on three personal ones throughout school, but nothing I'd feel comfortable having in a portfolio to pitch myself to a company.

A career is necessary. I'm 24 and undoubtedly lost. I like to write, program, and draw about evenly and I wish I had the constitution to sit in front of a computer and solve complex problems. I can't. I've tried. I've already beaten myself up over it, which convinced me I may not want to go for a Master's in Comp Sci or get another pure Software Dev job.

I've been out of school for two years. I've had two jobs and a 6 month internship since then at a fortune 500 company doing Test Automation, which wasn't my thing either. I'm hoping the job opportunity I was goaded toward went to someone more willing and worthy.
In all, I'm lost. I'm posting this as a shot in the dark. I've been doing research on my end and found a few leads such as Carnagie Mellon's Entertainment Technology Center. I also found something called the GEM Fellowship which would provide financial aid toward minorities in engineering fields.

If anyone has any advice or leads or anything at all that would be beneficial, I'm all yours.

Oh yeah, this is a cross-post from /r/cscareerquestions .

Also, I'm crossing my fingers this is an appropriate question for this subreddit.",4,0,1877.024427454993,GradSchool
Advisor is replacing details in manuscripts with watery BULLSHIT,"Field: STEM

For almost all drafts that I wrote, my advisor replaces 90% of the discussion with some watery bullshit. I can feel how future readers ( if any;) ) will hate on this, cause I hate when I read watery crap in others' papers.

After s/he replaces, I need to fight for EVERY FUCKING SENTENCE to make the manuscript better.

WTF is happening, either I'm not getting something, or my advisor is afraid that our methodology is wrong?

Please advice!",23,0,1878.5174714364746,GradSchool
PhD 014: “12 Years A Graduate Student” with Parag Gupta,,2,0,1887.2746820846226,GradSchool
Help with research,"Hello folks,

I am a Astrophysics major (Senior graduating in May 2015) and I have applied for numerous places for research opportunities and got declined everywhere. My last chance was at my own university but for that I got interviewed and then declined saying they just accepted one candidate. I am preparing myself for giving the GRE and PGRE over the summer and pursuing my Masters in Astrophysics. 
1. My main concern is is there any way i can get into a good college without past research experience ?  
2. Is it any way I can still get research before graduating (Summer is when all research happens) ?

I go to top state school with good reputation in Physics (ranks top 30) in the country and I have decent GPA (3.3 overall) too. But is it normal for students to not have research experience and still get into good grad schools ?",3,0,1968.667540880919,GradSchool
"""The PhD system is an abomination and has ruined many lives"" - Freeman Dyson",,0,1,2051.3492654179563,GradSchool
"Applied to grad school, want to start a family, too.","I have applied to two schools in my area, and I'm supposed to hear from them in late March or early April. For various reasons, my husband and I are looking at May as a good time to try to get pregnant. That would mean we'd be due next February. 

I'm not sure about my options for ""maternity leave"" from grad school. I know that in some programs you can defer enrollment or take a semester off in there somewhere. These programs both have cohort groups that move together through classes and clinicals, so I'm worried they won't want me to get too ""nontraditional."" 

Is there an acceptable way to find out the policies they have without hurting my chances of getting in? I'm betting they can't discriminate against a pregnant student, but I just want to be sure, and get a better idea for planning purposes. Thankfully I'll find out whether I'm in or not (and which school) before getting pregnant. 

Any experience or knowledge you can share would be appreciated! ",12,0,2066.801279306845,GradSchool
"A ""scared straight"" for liberal arts majors",,1,0,2069.0497746772153,GradSchool
Will graduating in 3 years weaken a grad school application (or leave you underprepared)?,"I am currently a sophomore chemistry major with enough credit to graduate after my third year.  My school offers a program where, for half tuition, you can add one year to get a master's in your field.

**The options I am considering:**

* Graduate in 3 years, apply to PhD programs

* Graduate in 4 years with a BS and MS, then apply to PhD programs

* Graduate in 4 years with two BS degrees, one in chemistry and one in math

* Graduate in 4 years with one BS and two full semesters of electives and/or (a) minor(s)


**Other things to consider:**

* I have just finished doing 5 months of research in my Organic professor's lab.  I may be up for two publications, he is the chair of the chemistry department, and he will likely write me a letter of recommendation.

* I am about to work for 6 months developing processes for a pharmaceutical company.  This is organized with the school, not a leave of absence.

* I would like to do research in a field heavy in math, and if I stick with chemistry it will probably be something theoretical/computational, but I am considering shifting my focus towards more ""pure"" math.  


All replies are appreciated, especially if you have experience in a computational science or math.  One of the things that concerns me is what kind of options I will have in the future, as I am not very into the idea of working in a chemistry lab my whole life and I much prefer the theory behind everything.


In case the question is kind of buried in my post, I'm basically asking which of the options you would consider the best path to prepare for a PhD program, and if anybody has an opinion about doing math versus theoretical chemistry for the most variety of options in the future.  

Thanks all",11,0,2120.0239644920302,GradSchool
I won the PhD game by not playing.,"Another quitter post here. I should feel like I'm missing something, like a part of me has suddenly been torn away, and yet I don't miss the PhD at all. The day after quitting I had no pangs of regret or anything. I fully expected them, and yet there's nothing.

To give some background: Up until last month I was a fully funded grad school student in engineering just under a year in to my candidature. The reasons for quitting were many. Opportunities promised never came through, the loneliness, feeling like I was being left behind as the real world charged forward, and just a general apathy for everything academia.

The strangest thing since I've quit is watching the dreams of my fellow grad students who finished in the month I quit have their dreams smashed. Two were promised jobs by their departments that never came through. Another who has a part time position in the department already was also passed over, and just generally the years these people have spent has been completely dashed. These people were the top of their class and yet hiring them made no business sense. 


Meanwhile others in my entry year are busily writing up journals for no pay, creating conferences that nobody cares to be at, or doing work for other academics just for the line on the CV. And these students don’t even have funding to support themselves with. Why are they doing this? I had funding and I certainly didn’t feel like giving away my time for free in some vague hope it will be repaid to me some day.

I actually came from industry and went back to academia, so I had a get out from the beginning. More importantly I had work experience that people who stuck with academia the whole way through did not have. Maybe that’s why I felt safe in quitting. Maybe that’s why I didn’t feel happy doing something for nothing like my peers. They’re all wasting the best years of their lives. They could be travelling or building up a career, but instead they’re clinging on to that shred of hope that their academic job will come. Why do they think they’ll be any different than our friends that just finished their doctoral thesis’s?

You think academia looks strange from the inside, but take it from me, it looks like a desperate loony bin from the outside.
",76,29,1464.3983857883263,GradSchool
How I feel as a T.A. when I overhear a student tell the professor how helpful I am,,0,0,2181.3282353253635,GradSchool
How getting into my #1 choice for grad school feels,,4,0,2414.2628996772155,GradSchool
How i've been feeling about my MA dissertation,,1,0,2251.259739954993,GradSchool
Which graduate schools have the worst reputation for bullying students? Best reputations?,"I'm trying to identify graduate schools where students are treated with respect and abusive faculty conduct is not tolerated. My impression is that a lot of graduate schools only pay lip service to these values and are more concerned about protecting themselves against lawsuits.

P.S. Please don't answer if you don't have any names of schools or programs. I'm not interested in your comments unless you actually have an answer to my question or if you don't have quality advice on how to screen out bullies and exploitative people.",18,0,165.0508742142524,GradSchool
"Grad students, who in your significant others? Are they a grad student too?","Hello, I am a P.h.D in pharmacology and toxicology and my SO is not in science or grad school. I am just curious to see if other grad students pair up with other grad students. Do you feel that grad students level of intellect should be paired up with another fellow graduate student or do you seek to free yourself from the heavy shackles that grad school can be and prefer to seek a SO outside of your career choice?",41,3,242.1101218994376,GradSchool
Case for Affirmative Action,"I’m in a program where besides myself and another student, everyone is from China (total of about 30 students). Currently, I am struggling to find a study group since most of the discussions amongst students are in Mandarin and I do not understand the language. This has put me under a great deal of stress because I tend to study/work better with a group rather than individually. I have approached my Chinese classmates multiple times. However, since English is their second-language, they seem to prefer discussing topics with other Chinese students in Mandarin.

Even though the other non-Chinese student and I have tried studying/discussing together, there have often been times when it would be beneficial to have a larger group.  

How do I express my concerns to my department administrator? I’m scared I might be seen as a racist. I have nothing against my classmates but just the language barrier between them and me. Any tips?",25,4,365.1279112512894,GradSchool
I hate my department.,"I feel nothing but spite and resentment towards my department.

**Mandatory coursework**: I came here 100% ready to do research. I was already published in my discipline and had several promising ideas I wanted to pursue.  The administration refuses to allow me to do any of it. They insist on taking a full schedule of courses which are totally irrelevant to my field.

**Shitty teachers**: Nearly every professor I have had here is terrible.  I've had one good prof in two years, two *terrible* ones (with reputations for being awful teachers), and the rest have just been senile to the point where I'm basically just self-studying.  Why am I even in school if the teachers are worthless?

**Shitty coordinators**: Teaching to the test runs rampant here, completely dominates.  I love teaching but so many things that the micromanaging course coordinators make me do are shitty and wrong.

**Nobody gives a fuck**: the department does not support its students in any way.  There is no point in requesting anything because they are completely inflexible.  Same for complaints.  They have, literally, told me that I am ""replacable"", after I requested to teach an in-person course instead of an online course.  (This isn't ITT tech or anything here either, this is a mid-to-top tier state school.)

**No opportunities**: They are completely uninvested in my future. There are literally no opportunities for internships, fellowships, anything like that. I'm actually mocked when I mention wanting to get a summer internship at a company, like anyone who doesn't live off academia's teat forever is weak.  Professors do not expand my network because the few who are willing to talk to students have that completely academic attitude where practical skills are frowned upon.

**15k/yr**: I mean seriously, you've got to be kidding me, even for grad student salaries this is ridiculous.  And even with a tuition waver there is still about 1k per year of student fees.

What the fuck am I going to do?  I've been here for two years.  
I could master's out this Spring and try to enter a different PhD program, but I've been here two years, that means there's three here to go, and I would have to start over at five years if I went somewhere else.  I don't know if it's worth it.  Besides, I'm not sure if I even could get admitted anywhere acceptable, my application is not strong because for the last two years I have made no new contacts, so all my letter writers would be from undergrad which won't look good.  I have done just ok in my courses, because I hate them, and my GPA is less than what it was when I applied for this school.  And just in general, I have made no progress in the last two years, because they refuse to give me the freedom to fucking make any.

I'm just fucking miserable.  I hate this place.  There's so much that I wanted out of graduate school and I resent them for not letting me do it.  All they would have to do is get the fuck out of my way and I could do it myself, but instead every ounce of my energy goes to dealing with their bullshit.  I can't drop out because I will hate myself forever and probably not recovery emotionally.  And the other option is taking it up the ass from them for the next three years, learning nothing, and wasting what could be the best academic years of my life.",9,4,1762.1432006031414,GradSchool
"Re-post: Your help is deadly needed for a study (approved by IRB) on how an online community like this subreddit ""GradSchool"" supports graduate students to solve their challenges in graduate school",,7,3,1145.4051218994375,GradSchool
"For my cake day (and group meeting tomorrow), a word from WSWCGS!",,0,4,2199.842182084623,GradSchool
"People with ""fluff"" masters (Women's Studies, Art History, Asian Studies, Anthro, etc.)...where are you now?","I was just accepted to an M.A. program at Columbia (not in one of the areas I listed in the title, but related) with a sizable scholarship, so little to no debt.  Does anyone here regret getting a degree that's not seen by society as remunerative? What have you done with your degree career-wise, and was it valued by employers?  Any suggestions to maximize employment opportunities?

ETA: when I say ""fluff"" I meant that's how society sees humanities, not my personal opinion; I think these disciplines are awesome. Sorry if the post title was offensive.",33,4,568.3477607883265,GradSchool
Advice dealing with lab members' apparent misogyny,"My PI is female, and though not yet tenured, is (of course) far more knowledgeable than any of us in her lab, and occasionally asks us for analysis that doesn't make sense or doesn't seem right to us at first. Typical PI thing, right? Just do what she says and if it doesn't work out tell her so. 

A postdoc in my lab and a new grad student are both from East Asia, and have been frequently rankled by having to do analyses for her that don't make sense to them or seem like a waste of time. It seems more and more that this is a cultural issue, that they perhaps don't respect her as an authority figure or intellectual better because she's a woman. The postdoc has said things about her that criticize her primarily as a woman, not as a function of her personality or as a PI, like ""The way she treats us, how she's not direct with us, a male PI wouldn't be like that,"" and once insinuated that she was in a bad mood because ""maybe it's a bad time for her"" (accompanied with eyebrow raise and chuckle). Is there any way for me to either figure out if that's why or if they just always question authority (which is, of course, antithesis to people who grew up in an East Asian culture)?  If so, how can I get them to give our PI some credit and just do what she says?!

PS Since Reddit is usually also prejudiced, I should say I'm a guy, so don't claim runaway feminism on me as if I'm ""just some dumb chick overreacting"".

*Edited to include past comments as evidence.",30,5,1464.0750871772154,GradSchool
UC Berkeley STEM Professor's sexist facebook comments about women in academia,,7,4,1677.0035709735116,GradSchool
Hey r/GradSchool: I'm launching an online course to teach data analysis. Interested?,,12,8,2066.2410941216594,GradSchool
Graduated Today!,,1,0,1626.8228996772154,GradSchool
Malcolm Gladwell: why you shouldn't choose a prestigious university,,31,7,2124.597228380919,GradSchool
Which branch of history should I pursue? Military History or Women's History? or it doesn't matter?,"Hello.

I am an undergrad in my last semester who is going to do my masters in January, hopefully. I want to get my masters in Military History. However, I got an idea about an academic history book, and I want to publish that book through an university press, for which you need a PHD. So now I want to get a PhD in history. However, the book that I want to write is not related to military history, but more related to women's history. So I want to know which PhD. should I pursue. Military History or Women's history?

&#x200B;

Thank you.",7,0,3.3469158809190547,GradSchool
Graduating with a relatively low GPA. What can I do to raise it after graduating?,"My GPA is at 2.94 but I suspect it'll be lower by the end of this semester. I have 1 more semester to raise it but I fear the highest it may get is slightly above 3. 

When I first joined college, I was on the verge of dropping out due to taking and repeating the same courses which accumulated these Fs which impact my GPA but can't be removed. I had a phase. I've worked hard to repent and get it to where it is now but I hit a really tough semester and I'm not really willing to continue in my current college (I hate it). 

I'm going to graduate but is it possible to raise my GPA after graduating? I want to have a solid masters application. I love what I do and I'm good at it but is it possible to do individual subjects (at other universities) to replace some existing core grades? Or should I pick up a new minor in something to show my competence? What's the best way to push forward and upwards?",9,1,869.4417885661043,GradSchool
An email telling me I have a chance at acceptance! Inb4 crushed dreams.,,8,2,977.8682121772155,GradSchool
Confession,"My name is [redacted], I will have a master's degree in three months and I still don't understand punctuation. I have the APA manual and I have read it repeatedly but I am trying desperately to look educated when I hit that final submit button. One professor, who admits to being well over 70, wrote all over my papers but her corrections did not match the 6th version of the APA guide. Another professor was obsessed with putting citations in the middle of sentences - I have yet to find this wizardry in the book. I had to admit to my little sister, who is starting her AA, that I could not help edit her paper. First, I don't even understand formatting in APA. Second, she wanted to come at me with MLA. It feels EXACTLY like trying to navigate the Hispanic grocery store despite two full years of Spanish - a shame sandwich with a side of impostor complex.

I am only required to submit a portfolio (if I go into why my thesis withered and died on the vine, I will probably cry) but because we are ONLY submitting six examples of everything that we are as people, there is pressure for them to be perfect. PERFECT. 

I know that there are many of you trying to get through the thesis or dissertation hell but I cannot be the only person who doesn't understand English punctuation after this many years of school. I have read discussion board posts. Either there is a drug and alcohol problem on campus, my school BLOWS or there are others.   ",8,0,1328.3955501401783,GradSchool
Question about my odds at MS acceptance,"So I'm extremely interested in a biomedical anthropology ms program at Binghamton university. I graduated with a relatively low GPA of 3.01. However I was a dual major, human biology and psychology. I was doing very well with just a psych major, but basically had an epiphanous moment where I realized my degree was likely to be marginalized since I had no idea what I wanted to do. So I decided to pick up a human biology major. I had one year of ~ 2.5 GPA which was anomalous to my other three years. Since graduating I worked as a personal trainer and a mental health tech in a hospital. I have some solid letters of recommendation from professors from my undergrad and doctors and nurses I work closely with. About to take the GRE in 2 months, have been working my ass off trying to do well. Assuming I do OK on them, do I have a shot at being accepted or has my GPA doomed me?",7,0,1388.3437445846228,GradSchool
I'm a recently granted STEM PhD and I seriously believe that certain people are predestined for success.,"Quick background. I recently defended my STEM thesis in a very ""elite"" program. 

I put ""elite"" in quotations because it honestly doesn't matter where I got it from. Because I seriously believe that I was predestined to have a mediocre or even poor financial and emotional return on my educational (BS plus PhD) investment. I also believe that minor changes in choice or action likely would not have helped me significantly.

Have you noticed certain people in your program simply seem to ""get it all""? Not necessarily by publishing the most high quality papers, or obtaining fellowships, or speaking at prestigious conferences. But simply by being. During my 7 years in my PhD program, I have seen literally two dozen of other graduate students (off the top of my head) go to brand name law schools (and then BigLaw firms after), become hired by F500 companies, investment banks, large consulting firms, despite never having a single accomplishment to their name. No publications, no extracurriculars, no involvement in their particular industry of interest. It's like they simply asked for an interview and were just given a job.

As a manager of a career club in school, I have easily seen dozens of people prepare for these types of interviews for weeks with no offer extended. People among whom I would consider the brightest on campus. Yet at least once a month I am approached by someone in a panic because they haven't prepared at all for an interview they have in two days. Yet they get the offer anyway.

Because I'm relatively familiar with these students, I also know about work habits. They do nothing significantly differently. If anything they may work less intensely, but I am not convinced of that.

I've seen managers of investment clubs forced to take post docs, because they received 0 offers out of 10 interviews. I've seen unaccomplished students who were former drug addicts obtain offers from McKinsey.

I cant conclude its simple luck. Or maybe that's what I am actually concluding.

It just seems that they are predestined. And as im about to be unemployed because I'm done my PhD and don't have a full time job, I honestly think my life would have been better had I been a drug addict in high school and college.",13,0,1468.8252376401783,GradSchool
I just submitted my thesis -- 68 days after choosing a research topic.,,7,3,1666.9078533809188,GradSchool
9 ways the “women to STEM pipeline” isn’t enough,,9,2,1912.827679769808,GradSchool
Are university lectures still relevant?,,13,1,1969.7227607883265,GradSchool
[humor] Getting a PhD? It's morphing time!,,0,0,2155.11740199203,GradSchool
Med School Boy + Grad School Girl?,"After college, my boyfriend intends to go to medical school and I intend to go to graduate school. We are committed and I think we'll make it, but I think the prospect of keeping the relationship strong with possible long-distance, plus his workaholic nature, plus how shitty medical school is, intimidates him. We have a pretty relaxing and low-maintenance relationship, so I don't think being in a relationship will take a toll on our energy for school. If anything, it helps right now. But we spend a LOT of time together, and if we can't live together, the inability to might be a dramatic shift.  

1. How can we increase our chances of getting programs in the same state?

2. Tips for how to stay on top of our relationship when we have 100+ hour weeks 
",6,2,581.6702839364747,GradSchool
How many of you had to become IRB certified as a class requirement?,,9,0,1859.0683857883266,GradSchool
"This is the story of how I was offered a Graduate Teaching Assistant position, brought to you by Doctor Who gifs.",,1,1,1993.2341496772153,GradSchool
Literature Reviews and Research,"For people here conduct academic research or do lit reviews, what is your process? What kinds of tools do you use to assist you in keeping track of the vast amounts of information you come across? I am trying to understand how researchers make sense of all the information they find and what are the hardest hurdles in this process.

&#x200B;

I am part of a team  development by our specialized team at Carnegie Mellon University’s Human-Computer Interaction Institute. Our goal is to help people take the huge amount of information they browse on the web, and make sense of it faster, better and smarter.

 

Gathering the information collected during online research can become a huge burden. Researchers waste precious time organizing their sources and trying to sort through masses of information. That’s where Fuse comes in. Fuse is a companion app for web browsers that helps researchers capture content - whether it’s text, images, links, or videos - while automatically collecting and tracking that content’s source material and metadata for simpler, more efficient citation management.

[https://www.getfuse.io/r](https://www.getfuse.io/r)",3,0,118.34509875128944,GradSchool
So I realized....,"I'm the bitch grad student no one wants to work with or even be around.

Whatever. I'll get done faster with no one distracting me, right.",7,0,239.87783023277092,GradSchool
Why are my friends publishing/ graduating/ marrying ? [OC],,4,0,502.02298069573385,GradSchool
"Code is not working, A windy day, A faulty lighter [OC]",,0,0,508.21118671425234,GradSchool
Do you think it's harder to get along with someone who is in grad school or has less education?,My friend and I were having a debate about this. She thinks it's harder to get along with someone who has more education than less generally speaking. I think some educated people lack people skills. I know that there's no 1 factor that determines this but I'm curious to know what you think. Are educated people more difficult?,8,0,524.8641728253635,GradSchool
Any life savers willing to take a look at my SOP?,It’s only a page long. I’m totally at a loss right now!!!,1,0,624.0401797698079,GradSchool
Tips for someone looking to get into grad school with low GPA?,"Anything will help. 

Please share your own stories as well",5,1,822.7994621772154,GradSchool
"First year of grad school, I felt like a baby bird.",,0,0,957.1046936586968,GradSchool
How much will my GPA and major matter for grad school?,"Hi, I'm currently a junior in undergrad at a top ten school and working on a B.S. in Psychology, with a minor in Biology.  I no longer have that much interest in Psychology, and rather much prefer Genetics.  Psych is just not concrete enough for a science for me anymore and I love the tangibleness of Genetics.  How much will my major in Psychology affect my chances of getting into a grad school for genetics or molecular biology?  

I also have around a 3.5 GPA, and while I know GPA isn't everything, will this and my current major ruin my chances?  Switching majors at this point would be possible, but I would rather not if I don't have to. I do have research experience, and what I hope to be good letter writers.  I've worked in 2 Psych labs and will be studying abroad to do more Neuroscience related research in a European country this coming semester.  

I currently work in a genetics wet lab as well and have been for a year.  I have a great rapport with the professor and have been working independently on two projects since May.  I haven't found any sort of results yet and this can be quite discouraging.  I'm worried that this lack of progress in my one genetics lab might reflect poorly on grad school applications.

I guess I'm also looking for support or encouragement and advice right now as I just finished up a semester where my grades were fantastic.. until finals and now they have just gone to shit from where they were.    I was getting straight A's, and this was particularly important in the genetics course I was taking but ended with 2 B's, 1 A, and most likely not an A for my final course.   I was really counting on my grades this semester to boost my GPA.

Is this going to be an uphill battle for me with lots of rejections, more so than I could expect otherwise?  What can I expect?  I appreciate any help.  ",6,1,1030.8715223624006,GradSchool
Emailing a professor about his notes online,"I am currently working in the industry and I was trying to get more information about one of the concepts and came across one of the links from an university in North America. While the notes were good, I was initially confused by one of the explanations (or lack of it). I figured it out in the end but if I could have couple of hours saved if there would be just an extra sentence that would clarify the concept.

I am thinking about emailing the professor and letting him know that he can make his notes a little more clear. Would it be too bold to do or I should go for it?",8,1,1118.1229575475857,GradSchool
I just want to rant about TAing...,"I am a TA for summer school.  I am almost done but just got some very irritating news regarding an assignment I just marked.  In a nutshell, without divulging too much information, I apparently ""screwed everything up"" and ""did not follow the proper marking schemes"" that were never mentioned before I marked the assignments, and now are suddenly so crucial.  I am hesitant to elaborate more because I am still enrolled and I don't want to get my hours revoked.  

Make me feel better.  What are your TA horror stories?",2,0,1215.317992269808,GradSchool
Help!! Could you participate in my study on how this online community facilitated by GradSchool helps you survive in graduate school?,"Hello, my name is Zhongrui Yao and I am a graduate student at Florida State University. I am conducting a study of how an online community helps graduate students solve their challenges in graduate school. Since you recently submit posts related to your individual challenges in graduate school, we would like to invite you to participate in this study. Specifically, I will access to your posts in this online community in the following four months in this online community, and would like to interview you – either via telephone, skype, google hangout, or in person when possible – about your experience in this online community, and how this community help you survive in graduate school. Interviews should take 30-60 minutes.
 I am attaching a copy of the consent form, which you may review to learn more about this study. If you are willing to participate or would like to find out more information about this study, please reply to this post and send me a message or contact me at zy13c@my.fsu.edu. And I will be greatly appreciated that you could email me the consent form in a word document. Thank you, Zhongrui Yao 

                            Consent form

Dear Participant, I am a graduate student, Zhongrui Yao, in the College of Education at Florida State University. I am conducting a study about how an online community (the subreddit ""GradSchool"" as a case) helps you solve your individual challenges in graduate school. Your posts in this online community will be accessed and analyzed. Your participation will involve an interview lasting no more than 60 minutes. The interview may be conducted in person, via telephone, or via computer, depending on what is most convenient for you. Interviews will be conducted in English. With your consent, an audio recording will be made of this interview to ensure accuracy. All interviews will be transcribed and the original recordings deleted. Your participation in this study is voluntary. If you choose not to participate or to withdraw from the study at any time, there will be no penalty. Your responses will be held confidential to the extent allowed by law. The results of the research study may be published, but you will be de-identified by using the following steps. First, I will not mention the name of this community. No one will know the community refers to this subreddit. Besides, I will use different pseudonyms like rose and lily for all participants. So they will not track you with your pseudonyms. Moreover, regarding any concern with quotes from this subreddit, I will paraphrase all the quotes in any published papers. Actually, I will use many more quotes from interview transcripts than the archive of posts and comments in this community. I think there won't be too many overlaps between the interview transcripts and the archive data here. Research records will be stored securely and only the researchers will have access to the records. These records will be destroyed on or before December 31, 2016. There are no more than minimal risks or discomforts if you agree to participate in this study. Although there may be no direct benefit to you, the possible benefit of your participation is getting the copy of research results to develop of a better understanding of this online community and other graduate students’ experiences in graduate school. This study will be conducted under the supervision of my advisor: Vanessa Dennen. If you have any questions concerning this research, please contact us at (850) 459-2842 or vdennen@fsu.eduand zy13c@my.fsu.edu. Sincerely, Zhongrui Yao _______________________________ (signature) _______________________ (date) If you have any questions about your rights as a subject/participant in this research, or if you feel you have been placed at risk, you can contact the Chair of the Human Subjects Committee, Institutional Review Board, through the Vice President for the Office of Research at (850) 644-8633.
",0,0,1307.070168195734,GradSchool
PhD admission qualification question,"I'm trying to decide which programs to apply to for a doctorate in business/marketing or PhD in marketing. I have 25 years of industry experience and an MBA from Purdue. 3.2 Grad GPA, 3.5 undergrad GPA. I taught a couple of university classes - loved it - and want to get my PhD in Marketing so I can research/teach full time. It isn't necessary, but would make me more competitive. It's been 20 years since I took the GMAT, so I'm going to have to retake it. I'm also 46 years old. What schools should I seriously be considering? I don't want to waste my time and money on school apps that wouldn't consider me because of my age and/or low test score. I am only interested in full time AACSB accredited programs. Any thoughts on programs? I've been looking at rankings, but I've heard doctorate program rankings aren't reliable. ",5,0,1422.9265570846228,GradSchool
Any little fishes out there in big ponds?,"Background Info:
I'm an undergrad at a small school (U Idaho).
GPA ~3.9 (institutional) & 2.81 (transfer from community college) ._.
I have a year working in a chem lab and a semester in a bio lab. I want to pursue a Ph.D in a biomedical science (cancer bio). I want to go to a good school, but I feel like my chances are slim. I feel like I'll be under-prepared not coming in from a bigger school, and I feel like the coursework will also be too much for me to handle. I was thinking of applying to U Washington, UCLA, UC San Diego, and Stanford because their program looks phenomenal. I feel like I won't get in any of them because they're too prestigious. 

Hopes:
I was hoping that you fine people could help me by putting in your input. Especially if you got your degree in a related field, but I would also like to hear from everyone :)

Questions:
1. Should I take a GRE subject test?
2.Would you rather be a big fish in a small pond or a little fish in a big pond?
3. What can I do to increase the likelihood of getting into a Ph.D program?
4. Any additional advice for a lowly undergrad?",11,0,1442.8587445846226,GradSchool
"For a bit of fun, what project ideas do you have that will never pass the ethics board?",Example: A professor I know who is interested in the scaling laws of different mammals wants to see how long the mammalian dive reflex can hold-out for across species...essentially involves seeing how long it takes for mammals to drown.,2,0,1451.194404306845,GradSchool
Confused about contacting professors for an MPH,"Getting closer and closer to graduate school application, and I'm trying to figure out whether/how to contact professors for a masters in public health program. I've talked to one student in the school I'm aiming for, and it sounds like reaching out to professors in the program you're applying to is standard practice. Advice on the internet ranges wildly from ""emailing professors is a terrible idea, never do this"" to ""if you don't do this, no grad school for you"".  Lots of advice is geared towards more STEM type students who need to see if a professor would potentially accept them into their lab but this isn't as much of a thing in MPHs. I assume the point of contact is to see if they would do research with you/advocate for you in admissions. Can anyone clarify what the goal  of contacting professors is for me? What's the best way to go about doing that?",2,0,1464.0521126401782,GradSchool
Question on ownership of a conference paper,"Hello everyone,

I tried asking this in /r/academia but no replies (<2k subs).

Situation: 

* Prof paid me to be research assistant. I'm a senior undergraduate.
* I do all of the research from scratch, write the paper, she edits it a little bit
* submitted to conference, gets accepted
* she starts revising the paper a lot with spelling/grammatical stuff, maybe deleting/adding a paragraph. Okay, all is fine.
* she wants me to cite a paper of hers that hasn't been published yet but was accepted - she wants it as related work
* I email her saying it's not really related, I ask her to explain why it's related.
* She doesn't tell me, just tells me to do it.
* I call, still disagreeing. She won't tell me why. Tells me to do as I'm told.
* I quit, I won't self-cite without good reason.
* She updates the paper as she wants, re-submits after the final draft deadline to the easychair website for conference papers. Paper looks like shit now with her edits.

This is for IEEE. Can I somehow block this publication? I didn't transfer any copyrights to her, and we signed no contract specifically stating ownership of this paper. 

Do I need to call the IEEE copyright office about this? The conference publications people (email correspondence only) haven't responded to my inquiries yet. I'm first author. What can I do? This is not a paper that I would be proud to show to people anymore. Furthermore, she added in a previous student who worked on this project before I started it, but his work was in NO way taken into my project. i.e. she listed a student on a paper who contributed nothing to it. ",17,0,1483.9952492142522,GradSchool
How do I know what graduate schools are in my range? (x-post with gradadmissions),"Hi everyone!  Its getting to that time in my Undergrad career when I need to start figuring out what I want to do after I get out of here!
I am starting to look into grad schools, but I don't know which I should apply to!  My practice GRE was *ok* (Q: 161 V:160, looking to improve that on the real one), and my gpa is sub-par (3.25 in Biomedical Engineering at a 40-45 ranked school).  However one thing I DO have going for me is that I have research experience, and there is a good chance I'll be published before I graduate.  In a deep sea of grad schools, how would people here recommend finding the right fish for me?

ps: open to PhD and MS, as of now",1,0,1658.0590223624006,GradSchool
Drugs in gradschool,"I was wondering if any of you know or have heard about any sort of drug use among the students you know (Adderall, etc.). Is it a common way of coping with all-nighters, workload, stress, etc.?",17,1,1673.0405848624007,GradSchool
What to expect in grad school,"One of my undergrad profs commented about grad school as ""now work begins :)""",3,1,1673.6588371772154,GradSchool
any advice on whether doing two masters degrees at once is a good idea?,"has anyone done this, or know of anyone who has done this ?

i mean, i think i can handle the workload.. but.................. 

sorry to not fully provide detail, but i think this line of questioning brought me closer to what I was looking for. if you care to take a look: 
https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/2tx1oz/any_advice_on_whether_doing_two_masters_degrees/co4e36m",16,0,1721.8555269920303,GradSchool
Should you ask before printing papers for class on the printer of your rotation lab?,"I don't mean asking every time, but I mean do you think most labs assume rotation students will print class papers and assignments on their lab printers, or is this something some PIs will mind so it's better to ask?",6,0,1766.9171357883263,GradSchool
Seeming normal or being honest?,"EDIT: Thanks everyone for the responses, which were pretty unanimous that I do not include this personal information. I just found a paper linked from UC Berkeley called ""[Kiss Of Death](http://psychology.unl.edu/psichi/Graduate_School_Application_Kisses_of_Death.pdf)"" in graduate school applications, and damaging personal statements that bring personal mental health into question was the first on the list! Dodged a bullet!

Hello! I am applying to grad school and in addition to my statement of purpose, I have to write this personal statement for at least one school:

>**Personal Achievements/Contributions Statement**: <University> is interested in a diverse and inclusive graduate student population. Please describe any aspects of your personal background, accomplishments, or achievements that you feel are important in evaluating your application for graduate study. For example, please describe if you have experienced economic challenges in achieving higher education, such as being financially responsible for family members or dependents, having to work significant hours during undergraduate schooling or coming from a family background of limited income. Please describe if you have any unusual or varied life experiences that might contribute to the diversity of the graduate group, such as fluency in other languages, experience living in bicultural communities, academic research interests focusing on cultural, societal, or educational problems as they affect underserved segments of society, or evidence of an intention to use the graduate degree toward serving disadvantaged individuals or populations.

Now, my life has been pretty easy as far as economics have gone (thanks for saving up, middle-class parents!). Also, I am not really interested in research that helps ""underserved segments of society"". But I have gone through some ""unusual or varied life experiences"".

Namely, in the third year of my undergrad, all of a sudden I presented with [Cotard's Delusion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cotard_delusion). This had a negative impact on my grades (exams seem less important when you think you are dead!). It is gone now, but it was hugely impactful and I turned the whole thing into a positive experience.

So, my question: **Do you think I should mention this ""unusual or varied life experience"" in my application as an obstacle I overcame and spin it positively, or should I leave it out to seem more normal (for lack of a better term)?**

Also, near the end of my undergrad I presented with *another* rare neurological disorder, [New Daily Persistent Headache](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_daily_persistent_headache). Basically, I had a headache 100% of my waking life (and in some dreams) for three years, trying 10 different medications before it went away. During this time I started, ran, and completed my thesis and finished my degree. We published the results and I presented them at a conference, all the while having this constant headache. I think this can be written to show perseverance. On the other hand, **how troubling to an admissions committee would it be that I had two rare neurological occurrences in the span of a few years? Should I include the headaches, or leave them out to *seem more normal*?**",13,1,1809.1654459735116,GradSchool
ME and my PhD but my mistakes a big obstacle between don't know who to overcome all these mistakes.,,8,0,1852.608327917956,GradSchool
Chapter 2/Lit Review: Your plan of attack,"I'm very interested in how you attack your Chapter 2/Lit Review process.  For me, attacking chapter 2 came very naturally.  I looked at it as a qualitative study of a large volume of subjects (i.e. research articles).  I actually processed my literature using qualitative tools and found it to be the easiest part of my writing process.  Personally, I had a priori categories that I used for thematic categorization of the studies I read.  I kept a database of author, year, method, number of subject, and findings.  That was my strategy and it worked for me.

 However, I find many people struggle with the literature review.  It's as if the volume of information becomes overwhelming or that there are no strategies for synthesis.  So here's my question:  (a) what field are you in, (b) how do you start your lit review, (c) what was your strategy for digesting all the material, (d) how did you write your lit review [was it more synthesis, more fact provision, more trend analysis, etc].

Again, this is not for my own personal benefit, but it's something that I think a lot of people struggle with and I think having an understanding of each other's strategies might make the process less daunting. ",9,0,2066.9103996772155,GradSchool
Grad students grading grad students?,"I've just finished a grad class at Harvard where all of the grading was done by graduate TAs.  I thought that grad students had to be taught and graded by PhDs and terminal-degree professors, not by other students.  Anyone else experience this?  Do grad students grade your work?",13,1,2091.0519737512896,GradSchool
What do you guys think is the next emerging science worth getting a phd in?,I'm currently an undergrad in a neuroscience lab and I love the whole process of research and the scientific pursuit behind it. My issue is that I dont like working with animals and neuroscience doesnt seem like it offers a bright future. What fields do you guys see growing in the next 5 years?,1,0,2148.798605695734,GradSchool
"Just finished my application frenzy: 3 fellowships, 14 schools.","I'm going for a Ph.D. in computer vision, and just finished the last of my applications. Wish me luck!",3,0,2494.983466806845,GradSchool
"Grad School is a Ponzi Scheme, with International Students as Indentured Servants","I recently applied to graduate school, I was deferred to a backup the previous year and they offered my funding.  I just got an email today saying they would pull funding from underneath my feet!  I AM DONE WITH ACADEMIA!  I am tired of all the hearsay, the broken deals, the cheating across the board, the abuse I've experienced.  Thank God I'm a US citizen, I can walk away relatively unscathed.  I feel sorry for my colleagues who are forced to stay, hoping to gain citizenship they would never be able to attain.  I will not spend the next 5 years pushing papers with fraudulent data with no one auditing each other.  The university systems needs to come crashing down.  Enough egg heads naval gazing about ideas that have little to no benefit to society.",9,0,194.84711264017832,GradSchool
"MRW I get that sweet, sweet post-doc money.",,1,4,1841.8816959735116,GradSchool
"Why Academics' Writing Stinks: ""In writing badly, we are wasting each other’s time, sowing confusion and error, and turning our profession into a laughingstock.""",,8,8,1843.862980695734,GradSchool
Too Fat to Be a Scientist?,,13,4,1946.2579228253635,GradSchool
"Oh, the Adjunct Office",,1,4,2378.789439029067,GradSchool
How I feel when browsing The Grad Cafe forum,,24,26,2377.227540880919,GradSchool
"My PhD ""mentor""...",,4,4,2020.4117538438818,GradSchool
Dissertating,,1,17,1810.122216806845,GradSchool
...and now we play the waiting game.,,4,10,2297.6341728253637,GradSchool
Need some motivation?,,2,1,1410.192540880919,GradSchool
"The Myth of Basic Science | Does scientific research drive innovation? Not very often, argues Matt Ridley: Technological evolution has a momentum of its own, and it has little to do with the abstractions of the lab",,15,0,1449.2958626401783,GradSchool
How common was my terrible graduate school experience?,"1. Proposal poaching 
2. Bait and switch tactics about research opportunities in adivser's lab (there are none)
3.Slander /spreading gossip about the grad student so they are socially manipulated
4. Cyber stalking and using hacked social media account information against them 
5. Failing students without reason (MS program) and forcing them to pay per credit to graduate--the money obviously goes back into the dept
6. School email account got hacked and damaging emails sent from student's account
7. Falsifying reasons to remove ra-ta-ship from grad student 
8. no lab hours/advising (as there is no real lab)
9.sexual harassment / toxic work environment
10. extreme workload  (compared to rest of cohort)
11.profs not following own grading rubric / grade appeal process not followed as outlined in official graduate school handbook 
12. Stealing student work and passing it off as you own, then acting like you are doing the student a favor by ""keeping them as 'advisees' in the non-existent lab""
13. Back door grad faking: So it looks the the grad student ta accidentally failed students (incl a pregnant woman)  and had to be ""fired"" due to incompetence when that actually was never the case 
14. Not telling the student the appropriate classes to take to graduate on time so the student is left back
15. Being part of experiments (as academia careers are) where specific levels of the IV are manipulated so publishable research can be obtained:
    Some topics include: Factors Influencing Burnout, Effect of lack of social support on Depression, Ambiguity in teaching styles, Factors that Influence Motivation, 
16. graduate work assignment grades being completely faked and arbitrary so the student is forced onto probation due to low gpa  
17. and so much more....?

*Please explain what was/is to be learned from this? Other than assholes clearly can exist in any environment?

*This happened in Wright State University and Fordham University. 
",22,1,1605.3420663438822,GradSchool
This is tough... Asking for your help in financial support of our podcast,"I do not do ask this easily or without much thought. However, as an active contributor to my favorite subreddit, I hope that some of you will be interested in helping:

**We started the [PhD in Progress Podcast](http://phdinprogress.com/) to initiate difficult discussions concerning the lack of academic jobs.** However, it has grown to be much more than that, covering relationships, finances, mental health, drug use, career searches, and much more. All the support via comments, e-mails, and reviews has been amazing! I know much of it is from this very community, so thank you!


(Un?)Fortunately, I am finishing up my PhD paper and written thesis! While I intend to have the show go on, I could really use some support. **Everything we have done for the show has come out of my own pocket.** Because you are likely a graduate student, you understand how this can affect a budget. 

Thankfully, the costs are not astronomical in the least but they are preventing me from focusing purely on the work I need to do to graduate, to find a job, AND to produce content for the show.


My ask: I will always keep this podcast free. No worries there. But **if you are willing to help financially support the show,** it would help me out personally. It would also help improve the quality and content of each episode, as I hope to make some equipment upgrades and website upgrades. 

I easily could have obtained funds through our university but would have been stifled. It is **vital that our show contain the actual voices of graduate students, NOT what the voices of the Public Relations department.**



**Here are two links:** 

1) [PayPal donation](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=ZFUAULBAEMZXG&lc=US&item_name=PhD%20in%20Progress%20Podcast&currency_code=USD&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF%3abtn_donateCC_LG%2egif%3aNonHosted)

2)[ Patreon Support Page](http://www.patreon.com/phdpodcast) with a bit more information

Again, your support (in any fashion) is really helpful for us. It enables me to get up at the crack of dawn and stay up WAY past my bedtime to finish production of each episode. If you're able to just leave a comment in support, that also goes a long way. However, if you find yourself with $10 to help defray server and coffee costs, I would personally really appreciate it!

tl;dr: Your support has been amazing and I can tell through analytics that /r/gradschool has spread the popularity of our show so much. **If you can help fund production and distribution of the show financially, we'll love you forever.** (We'll love your forever regardless)



",0,0,1839.245631158697,GradSchool
Application to master's program was rejected. Going to use it as a teaching moment for my students.,"So I got my first rejection letter for an ed program. They had concerns about my transcripts. Here's the deal with my transcripts: I went to college in the 90's. Left after 4 years with a 2.65. Not good, I grant it. However, I went back and finished 3 semesters with a cumulative 3.96. It brought my overall gpa into the B range. Those transcripts represent 2 different people. But you should realize, as will my students, that even if you aren't taking a class that deals with your major or what you want to do if and when you grow up - do your best . It's not that difficult to see. Going to restart my applications in the summer.",5,1,2039.2745894920301,GradSchool
Please Help a Fellow Grad Student By Participating in a Gaming Study.,"Hi everyone, I'm a PhD student at NC State and am currently running a study for my dissertation. All you have to do is play a Flash game that I made and take a survey at the end of it. The game is a (for lack of a better term) quest-based adventure game that takes about 25-30 minutes to complete. The survey is completely optional, so don't feel obligated to fill it out, but it would really help me out if you did. 

The game and instructions on how to play can be found [here](http://ciigar.csc.ncsu.edu/~beharri5/sqtg/) or at the following address if the link isn't working:
http://ciigar.csc.ncsu.edu/~beharri5/sqtg/

Also, if you're feeling really generous it would help me out if you could tell your friends about this study as well. I need all the people I can get. 

Thanks everyone!",1,0,2059.999358010549,GradSchool
Is it possible to do a postdoc with only a Masters?,"I have about 3 years work experience in a top research institute, and coming up on about 20 peer reviewed publications (though most are co-author). I know my cv is better than a lot of new Phds, and I feel that doing a phd now would be redundant for me in a lot of ways. Anybody know of this ever happening? ",11,1,2115.0651566216598,GradSchool
Should I do a Ph.D.?,,6,0,2245.4092885661044,GradSchool
Freaking out about the GRE,"So I've got one more attempt at this damn test. I'm taking it on October 5. I've been studying for months, I already took it two times, and got a 149Q.

I'm doing it because the University of Waterloo requires it for international students. I'm applying to CS.

I've taken several practice tests and I can't seem to get more than 151.

I don't know what to do anymore. I've tried everything. I've paid insane amounts of money to get this to work and I can't seem to get anything but crap score in math.

I hate this test, it's nothing more than a scam designed to fleece students out of their money and to keep poor people out of college.

Anybody have any advice? I have half a week before I have to take it. I could delay it one more week if everything goes right. I just want to be done with it. I've spent the last 7 months fighting this test.",36,0,19.082853380919055,GradSchool
Grad Student Fashion,"I have made a post similar to this one before, discussing my concerns about having to change my wardrobe. I continue to be concerned about the fact that it seems like female grad students are subject to a strange double standard in terms of how they dress: they can be neither underdressed (not put together enough) nor overdressed (too attractive = ""asking"" for sexual harassment). I can dress conservatively, and sometimes I do. However, I have a very alternative style of dress, which I think playfully reflects the joy I find in flouting the norms of how ""smart people"" should dress or what they should look like. My casual dress is 90s skater goth, but just as frequently, I go hyper feminine (think Legally Blonde). I will be pretty disappointed if I can't continue to express myself in ways that matter to me, but if having an overly funky sense of fashion will do me more harm than good, I will obviously make the safe decision. How do you all feel about this? Are these concerns nothingburgers? For context, my field is anthropology, and I will be doing my PhD at a top tier private school.",15,1,215.76940430684496,GradSchool
"3.15 GPA from an Ivy League, URM, female, chances?","I want to do an mpp/mba dual program preferably at a top school but realistically, not sure this will be possible. I have a 3.15 GPA from an Ivy, played 4 years of varsity sports. Will a killer GRE boost my chances? Where could I realistically apply?",6,0,680.8194737512894,GradSchool
Fuck this shit.,"Don't upvote. Venting.

It's been 6 years into my wife's PhD now. I've never been this irritated in my life. These were, by far, the worst years of my life. I have no idea if we'll survive this. I'm one more screaming session away from just packing up and moving out.

I work a demanding 9-9 Job. I have a PhD myself, earned well before she was in the picture, and in a different country. I moved halfway across this country so she can find an adviser she thought was ""inspiring"" but he turned out to be another hateful cunt with a robot heart and the sort of petty mind that only academia can produce.

I do all the housework. I do the groceries, the cleaning, the laundry, the maintenance AND the cooking. Any spare time she has is spent recharging in front of the television, or panicking about the next journal or conference deadline. 

I do all the money management. She routinely forgets to file for minor expenses. Her adviser makes things worse by guilt tripping her for spending any money, and chooses to give other people better opportunities. I'm not allowed to spend money on anything without being scrutinized. I had to hide some stuff I bought for skin care! She says it makes her feel bad, because she doesn't have time to look good. 


I've put my entire social life on hold for 6 years. I had a small, close-knit friends circle. We moved away, and now she won't let me take a couple days off to go meet them. Every time I'm away I've to spend all my time on the phone with her convincing her that I'm not having fun while she's ""studying"". She's jealous of any other female in my life. after my first two trips I came back to weeks of constant recriminations and judgment. I stopped visiting. Her adviser encourages all the students in their group to live 24x7 around work like he did, and she expects me to stick around because she's miserable. 

My family don't visit us anymore. The last time they were here, her adviser decided she had to present to a visiting committee of stuck up blowhards who were supposed to throw a few more funding scraps their way. She panicked when she saw the email, created a huge scene, and left. After telling my family how horrible her life with me is, she then constantly demanded my attention while they were around, and didn't let me spend time with them. 

My career has gone straight down the shitter. I was well on my way to being in the mid 6 figures. Yes, that's right. But now I'm stuck at this dead end job barely scratching 6 figures, and paying for her as well. Oh did I mention her adviser doesn't provide office supplies? And students have to even pay for their own textbooks?

My weight has shot straight up. She's constantly stressed and looking for caffeine, sugary drinks and cheesy foods. Every time I make the effort to cook better, she starts freaking out about me judging her! Did I mention I do all the cooking? Did I mention that she wanders by while I'm cooking and ensures I'm adding enough cheese and sugar??

And she fights. Every time her adviser says something she doesn't like, I'm the one that gets yelled at. She's screamed till the neighbors showed up. She's threatened to take me to court for abuse. She's threatened to take my money in a divorce. Honestly, at this point, I don't care anymore. 

She used to be a good person, but this system brings out the worst in people.

I still love her.

I want out.",7,3,743.707691343882,GradSchool
"So now that I'm a graduate student, how does dating work?",,15,2,778.6562561586968,GradSchool
US grad schools seem to only have PHD programs?,"All the other universities I've looked at seem to offer stuff like 2 year degrees after your undergraduate. And then I look at the US, and its all six year PHD programs only, what is up with that? 

Sorry, I am yet to attend university, I am a massive novice in relation to this. Sorry if this is a silly question.",13,1,807.652378843882,GradSchool
How competitive am I for a molecular bio phd program?,"Hi -- i am honestly just unsure of how competitive I am and what schools I should be applying to. I'm a rising senior at a top research university. Here's my break down:

Molecular Biology and Anthropology double major, chemistry minor, american sign language certificate

3.7 GPA overall, 3.3 science GPA
GRE: 155 quantitative, 158 verbal, 5.0 writing

3+ years of research experience, participated in two summer research programs, received a competitive summer fellowship awarded to 15 students/year. No publications, but worked with one PI for 3 years now and we have a great relationship

active in biology club, research club, ASL club,
volunteer at local hospital

am i a competitive applicant?  I honestly have no basis to judge myself so complete and total honestly would be so appreciated.

also - is there really stigma about going to grad school at the same university you attended for undergrad?

Thank you so much!!",19,0,814.835966806845,GradSchool
What credit card do you guys have/recommend?,Starting my PhD in the fall and was thinking of getting one in addition to my debit card,12,0,843.2993348624005,GradSchool
Any reasons why my assignment was returned without the staple,"I was given back my graded assignment, but it was missing the staple which was cleanly removed. Any reasons for this? Someone said the assignment might have been photocopied....why?",14,2,956.3262677327709,GradSchool
How do I go about asking a professor to change my grade?,"Yeah I'm going to be that guy who emails my professor asking for a grade change. 

My final numerical average was a 94.165% and the grade I received was an A-. I want to ask him if he might consider rounding that to an A. I mean in pretty much every class I've ever taken a 94% IS an A.

Have any of you ever successfully persuaded a professor to change your grade? If so how did you do it?",8,0,1012.7560362512894,GradSchool
"""Should I go to graduate school? Short answer: no.""",,35,17,1416.3180269920301,GradSchool
What will become of my sex/love life once I start my PhD?,"This is a serious question. Am I, in effect, joining a monastery whereby my dick will be locked away in a safety box for the next 5 years? Or will it actually be possible to maintain some sort of love life?  Just wondering what to expect. ",11,0,1331.1025293068449,GradSchool
A wallpaper to jump-start your year! - Karyotype-like Human chromosomes 20 and 16. [OC] (1920x1080 - other resolutions in the comments) (x-post /r/wallpapers),,4,3,1380.9452492142525,GradSchool
Questions about buying a house with a fellowship,"I'm looking at buying a house while I'm on a fellowship. One of the houses I'm looking at is older and needs some work but would be inexpensive to buy, and I don't mind doing the work to it. My fellowship stipend is based on a monthly budget. I'd like to put the expected depreciation costs (and, if possible, a portion of remodeling costs) on that budget, but I don't think my financial aid office will let me (I asked them and they said, ""It's not a constant expense so no""). This seems unfair to me, as if I were renting, those costs would be reflected in my rent payments. 

Who do I talk to about the financial side of this? An attorney? Or do I just have to suck it up and either pay out of pocket or keep renting?",10,1,2044.9786635661042,GradSchool
What color is the grass anyways?,"It's brown. 

I would like to take this moment in text to convey some reflection to all you would-be graduates, you naysayers, you optimists, and you nihilists.

This sub pops up in my feed and I see a rather even distribution of highs and lows. I read a lot of struggles and a lot of success. I see those who's research and commitment out weigh my contributions to academia, and those who I have felt otherwise. This sub is great because it reflects a commonality we all share; passion. Taking what we've learned and trying to have a voice among rockstars and idiots. Where are you in all this? Generally speaking, we're all somewhere between the rockstar and idiot, trying to find out what color the grass really is after all of this.

I want to start by stating that I have a bachelors in EE and a masters in EE. I am proud of them and do not hesitate to call myself an engineer at this point. My thesis focused on developing a system that would characterize LEDs while in space. This system was developed for a cubesat mission that will hopefully launch in December. I say hopefully because everytime i mention it the mission gets pushed back. 

The characterizer was designed by me and I worked with NASA contractors to integrate it into the 3U Cubesat. Once that was done I took everything I had, slapped it into 'word' and presented my creation to some professors. They said, ""nice job - you're still and idiot - should do a Ph.D,"" slapped my ass and pushed me out the door. I was proud. I felt accomplished, but never satisfied. ""Did I miss something? Was there a typo,"" you ask yourself. Of course there was. Remember, you fall between rockstar and idiot. You can make sense, but it's never perfect. This brings me to my first point.

Whatever you're researching, whatever you building, designing, writing, it's never perfect. You want through this mess of two to five years (or whatever): plan, execute, refine, present. You have an idea, pursue. You have a method, attack. You're learning the perspective, sculpt. You've chiseled away, present. Learn with you're short-comings and push forward. It's not a infinite hole.

The grass is brown.

I'll continue by stating that after graduate school I began a job with a prominent military defense contractor designing missile products. It's not exactly where I want to be, but its a step in the direction I want to go. I am extremely happy with the education I've received. I don't come from a prestigious school, but education is what you make of it. You can come from MIT and still be on the idiot side of the spectrum. I'm making a living and still can buy stupid things from time to time. From the outside looking in, this may sound like a story of graduate student success. I'm happy to say that it is. And it can be yours as well. 

A lot of the time I see posts about students getting the shaft from their advisor or some other outside influence. I am sorry if it's something unavoidable, or out of your control. But, if it is something in your control, establish the cutoff, establish the criteria. For my MSEE, I sat down the first day of graduate school and asked my advisor what he wants in order to get my MS. ""A conference paper and a thesis."" Fine. So I moved to the beat of that drum. Fast foward a year and a half and I'm flying out to Utah to present my initial design to some nerds at a small satellite conference. Fast foward another year, and I've submitted my thesis and passed my defense. Now here I am reflecting on this a year into working.

The grass is still brown.
""
""What's this have to do with me,"" you ask. What's this have to do with us all?"" I don't really know, but I have seen the light at the end of the tunnel, I have seen the grass on the other side. The light is blinding, and the grass is whatever color you choose it to be. Plan, execute, refine, and present. You'll get to end of this venture and you can continue to learn, or earn, or be a bartender.  You're here to gain perspective, or give advice, and help your fellow human through the toughness that is gradschool. Not initially happy? Stick it out for a period. Still not happy? Plan, execute, refine, and present. Live those choices.

I don't figure that this offers much insight, but just something hopeful. That I am have a story for you and that you too can have a similiar story. Good luck in everything that you do.

My grass is brown.
",3,2,395.6819737512894,GradSchool
"What is ""code""?","I'm going to be starting a PhD this Fall and on this and other academia threads I keep coming across the term ""code."" A lot of people seem to have ""to code"" for their research/dissertation, have issues with including ""code"" in their writing, have questions about the copyright of ""code."" I have a feeling this is STEM specific (my background is nowhere close to STEM) but I'm a little worried this may apply to me. Can someone explain? Just what the heck is ""code""?! :)",15,0,854.5743464364746,GradSchool
Is a B+ grade concerning?,"I just finished my first year of graduate school in the humanities. I have gotten all As/A+s until a recent class where I received a B+. I have had no reason to believe I was doing poorly in that class. Every meeting I had with the prof went well, he seemed to only have minor suggestions for improvement, and every assignment I got back was within A range. I would take a B+ and accept it if I knew that is what I deserved, but I am sincerely shocked. 

Is there anything I can do? Obviously I can't change the grade but at this point I am concerned that my research work and effort is not cut out for grad school.",14,0,888.8312561586968,GradSchool
Should I try to look whiter for this school interview? ( bad question i know),"I'm probably very terrible for asking, but this has been bothering me. I have an interview soon and the school has a LOT of white people, I mean a lot. Would it be advantageous to maybe buy some lighter makeup and skip the bronzer for this interview? They say that race doesn't matter and all that, yet they have quotas to fill and every application asks about race and wants diversity papers so I'm coming to the realization of how much race is going to be a factor. This is a really good program and I'd hate to miss out because I don't fit the right ethnic checkbox :(",8,0,980.1839992142524,GradSchool
Lost brown girl in STEM PhD,"Today has been particularly bad as my suggestions got ignored again at work while gaining traction when repeated a bit later by a white male postdoc who claims himself to be a genius. I hope I get the courage to be louder and call out acts of sexism. Also a shout out to all under represented people struggling with 
microaggressions.",96,110,581.9011867142524,GradSchool
Joe Rogan Experience #1006 - Jordan Peterson & Bret Weinstein (Higher education and Culture),,3,0,773.2418232883265,GradSchool
Is grad school ( PhD not Masters ) worth it?,"I know i am asking in a subreddit where a majority of the users are in their PhD programs but i want to know how do you justify whether this is actually worth it or not? Most of you who will graduate with a PhD will publish papers, go to conferences, only for your hard work ( your said published papers, research ) never to see the light of day. I mean how many PhD papers that *actually does get cited* that actually make a difference. So I ask is it worth it? I am not talking about the late nights or classes that youŕe TAing or even PIs that can be difficult to deal with. I am asking the time spent (~3-5 years ) getting the PhD. Also another thing about a PhD is that yes you´ĺl be an ""expert"" in your said field but if youŕe working in industry, you have such a narrow scope. Unless you´re working at a company that does your said research, the chances of you getting hired is small. So again I ask, is it worth it? ",13,4,1004.0345316216599,GradSchool
"Agree or disagree and why? For graduate student fellowships, the rich get richer, the poor get poorer",,11,0,1448.854577917956,GradSchool
US Marine here; applying to grad school and need critique on my Statement of Purpose Essay; PLEASE HELP!,"Good morning all,

I'm hoping to turn this essay in TODAY! I need to be done with it, because I have my final semester of undergraduate work beginning tomorrow.

Anyway, This is an application to American University Comparative and Regional Studies Program, and I'd really appreciate if anyone could take a look and critique my writing. I'm really thinking that this is the only program I want to do, so if I don't get in for January 2016, I'll be signing up for military deployments or something until I can get in. Please help me get into the program!

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B4tcXqxOoff5N3pMNi1VLUt5LWc/view?usp=sharing",6,0,1507.246580232771,GradSchool
What exactly is graduate school?,"I am quite inquisitive what grad school is about? If I sound like a noobie, I apologize. Is it like undergraduate school? Or what do I do with looking up programs? Thanks.",3,4,1549.3465570846226,GradSchool
How I feel today (in Canada it is the first day of the new university semester),,3,0,2233.420700603141,GradSchool
It's tough but so am I (Warning: profanity),"I am going to finish this PhD dammit. 

Why? I am tenacious, fucking smart, extremely creative, and I don't stand for other people's bullshit, no matter how much technical vocabulary they feel like throwing around. I am scientifically multilingual and I am not scared of polymer scientists, physicists, biophysicists/programmers, biologists, or even those weird-ass organic synthetic chemists/alchemists/magicians/cooks. People should listen to me because I am RIGHT and have GOOD IDEAS. I am right because I both have excellent intuition AND I put the work in to understand the science. This is MY WORK and any mistake in my research will be due to my own judgement, not due to my decision to follow another person's advice without fully understanding the problem myself. MY CHOICES, my PhD.

Unrelated but: I am also fucking GORGEOUS and I am going to rock some lucky man or woman's world some day. And, of course, in the meantime I am also doing just fine because me, myself, and I is all I got in the end and it aint no need to cry because Imma be my own best friend. I fucking rock. 

This PhD is the toughest thing I have ever done in my life but I AM GOING TO FINISH.

My adviser is a dick that believes women are less intelligent and less tough than men, is hyper religious and has literally told me I'm going to hell for being bisexual (after one of my friends from lab outed me to him) while having an extremely explicit, personal, inappropriate, and unwanted conversation about morality and sexuality with me - instead of talking seriously with me about my concerns with regard to graduating in two years with a strong PhD. I am going to come out of this place and lead my own lab someday... I can lead my own research project today, rely on myself, and find my own coadvisors whose advice I will take as exactly that - ADVICE - and I will go where I personally determine is the best direction for my work to go. 

My lab is full of liars that sabotage one another experiments and who do NOT CARE about anyone's safety. I AM GOING to change the safety culture in anyway I can and make sure the new lab members and younger students NEVER feel as frightened as I was when I first began working in this place. My university and lab's abysmal standards for keeping the students safe are their standards - but I can INSIST we do better for ourselves. I fucking care and these poor kids who are starting this hellish rollercoaster are going to be and feel as safe I can possibly help them feel.

My friends in lab have told me my PhD doesn't matter as much as theirs because I have a womb and ""more important things to worry about, like finding a husband and raising kids."" Fuck that ridiculousity. 

The university therapists may be a joke, insist on going on frequent vacations, and cancelling your appointments last minute... But I am strong and I can do this. My family loves me and I also love me.

I am NOT going to become jaded like everyone else here. I can do this and I can retain my integrity and my PASSION. I can do this. I CAN DO THIS. I just need to do good science, not give up, come into lab regularly, stick to my intellectual guns, and remain compassionate to the younger students so they never feel like they are in as hostile an environment as I am in... I can do this.

I CAN FUCKING DO THIS. I WILL DO THIS.


EDIT: Thanks for the downvotes, friends; your negativity tastes delicious -- and only makes me more powerful.
EDIT 2: Adding plurals to first edit. (:",40,60,1545.0387908809191,GradSchool
"Turns out, the hardest part of my program is -","Finding enough participants.


I need 5-10 volunteers this semester (disabled veterans within driving distance of me) and I know they’re out there, but I just get crickets when I try to schedule anything.",2,0,41.465480695733866,GradSchool
What is a GRE and what kind do I have to take for a pharmaceutical science graduate degree?,I am studying in the UK so I don't really know what a GRE is. I haven't been able to get into any funded PhD programs in the UK or Europe so I have decided to try my luck in the USA. What do I need to know about the GRE and applying to graduate school over there in general? I am currently doing a masters in medicinal chemistry and would like a PhD in the same field.,3,0,57.98280708462276,GradSchool
What about your ways to cheer up?,"**1.Try to look at the world with humor.** Even if you are insulted or you are in a difficult situation, still smile and say to yourself: “And this will also pass!”
**2. Do not stay at home, resenting the whole world!** You can be sure: there is no bad mood on the street, in the company of friends and acquaintances. Proven!
**3.Bring in your life the elements of novelty.** Psychologists recommend changing sustainable habits from time to time - for example, starting a new hobby or changing the style of clothes. Pick up a new wardrobe. Nothing acts as positively on mood as the attention of others.
**4.Take life easier.** In life there is always a place for exploits, but it is not always necessary. Try to focus on what you are doing at the moment. Often this is what contributes to success. Rejoice even small successes and small achievements.
**5.Keep a sense of perspective.** Life is movement, and what seems to be a tragedy today may cause a smile tomorrow. No wonder they say - ""the morning of the evening is wiser.""
*Join new interesting subreddit: r/college_buzz/ and find more posts and jokes ;)*",2,0,78.28648764017832,GradSchool
Help! Worried about GPA for grad school!,"Hello. First time posting and I'm a little nervous. My GPA is pretty low in my major, about 2.3. However, I have an overall 3.0. This is because I have three majors, Biochemistry, Chinese and Chinese Literature. I am looking to get into a decent (not top tier) grad school to get my PhD in Virology. My dream job is designing the flu vaccine. However, with my low GPA I am worried I am shooting too high. I'm about to start my junior year in college, and I've been doing research with a professor in my department since May. I feel like i Just belong in the lab. 

Does anyone know if my other majors will make me more selective in the grad school application process? I have yet to take my GRE, but I am studying for it now. I have also gotten a D in organic chemistry, so I'm not sure how it will affect my chances of getting in anywhere. 

I'll be the first in my family to pursue anything other than an Bachelor's degree, and the first scientist in my family. 

Any help would be appreciated, I'm just super nervous and figured this was the place to share. Thank you. :)",5,0,89.30902236240054,GradSchool
What's the precise route to get into Grad School?,"So, I'm in my final semester of gaining my Bachelor's in History at CSULB. I'm interested in some Grad Schools back in my home state (Louisiana). What do I need to do exactly? Would I need to do anything special beyond applying? If I were beginning to apply now, is there any chance I could be accepted for the Spring Semester despite graduating only in December?

&#x200B;

how long does Grad School usually take for the average student (who may also have a part-time or full time job)? How much financial aid or loans can you get for Grad School?

&#x200B;

I guess I have a bunch of questions and kinda difficult to get full responses since basically all my advisors and professors are on summer break.",14,0,101.08096680684498,GradSchool
How can we get our doubts answered without resorting to online communities like Reddit?,"I think I'm using Reddit far too much but don't know how to help it, I just am not able to find the answer anywhere else. Often I read all books and articles I suposedly should, but I still don't get stuff very well. Many here tell that advisors have their own thing to care about and pay little attention to the students' struggles, so I supose I can't ask them either. Are online communities inescapable for those who wish to learn?",4,0,156.83660338091906,GradSchool
"Should my kid go to grad school (yes, a finance thread)","I've just returned from a long weekend of touring grad programs with my oldest and the more I know, the less clear I feel.

First of all, i'm the one writing this note because my money is going to pay for a good % of it.  Which is not to say that my kid isn't a hard worker -- she's working 3 part-time jobs concurrently at her state university and saves what she can. But there's no way she'll be able to pull off grad school  - even with loans -- without my help.

the field is diplomacy/foreign affairs with an economics bent. She applied to 6 schools and got into all 6....with the top choice right now being Johns Hopkins SAIS.  It's also (after figuring out the fellowship money) the most expensive of the 6. And, yet, it's potentially a transformational program with a year at the campus overseas and the 2nd year in DC. 

But then it becomes confusing:
1. Both she and I believe that it's best to simply go to grad school right away because it gets harder after you're out there working (and out of the mindset). But is that true?  
2. There's also a sense that this will start her at a higher career level from Day 1 and better to knock out the 2 years now.
3. and i guess there's also a feeling that -- if you're going to do it anyway - why wait?  It's not like she's going to have more money in 2 or 3 years after working entry-level jobs.

What's everyone's opinions? And i guess the specific question is: Grad school yes or no? And Grad school right after undergrad, yes or no? ",6,0,205.27374458462276,GradSchool
Unfair adviser - need support\help,"Hi all,

does your adviser treat everyone in the lab equally?

TL;DR below

I have constant issues with my PI regarding her relationships with students in the lab. A particular problem that bothers me is unfair treatment of some of the students (and postdocs) based on PI's perception of their work. Let me explain.

We have one student, he came to the lab before me as a summer research assistant and stayed for a PhD. I came one year later. This student discovered something very exciting and currently in a process of developing the project further. It mostly involves wet lab, experiments, etc. He still has not published anything as the first author, although because he has worked as RA, he is the middle-author on many papers. He has not done his oral exams and has not defended PhD proposal yet. He is a great guy, very hardworking, but he works most weekends, never takes time off, and constantly tired.     

On the other hand, there is me. As I said, I came later, but on the same PhD program. I have done my exams and proposal defense already. Currently, I am writing three papers, one very cool one, another two are kind of stupid and short, but need to be published anyway. There is another large project I am working on, which also will be a paper, but probably next year. I work both in wet and dry lab, but these days I do mostly computational analysis. I try to not work on weekends, although sometimes I do. I do work 9-5 schedule, mostly to support my not-that-great mental health. 

So whenever we have lab discussions, my adviser is very excited about the student X making progress, although when we talk about me, it always seems to me that I am not doing enough.  Whatever I do, my PI is never happy, almost never tells me ""good job"" or anything like that. With student X, the situation is totally the opposite. He is always cheered, high fives and everything. My adviser always makes sure he is not assigned any additional lab stuff to do because he has ""a ton of things going on already"". Their relationships are very good, exactly like (in my opinion) professor\\student relationships should be. 

I am not the only example of this bias. There are other students and postdocs who are treated this way. It feels like my PI does not really understand how much actual work other people do. Although she often says how good it is to have health work-life balance, in reality, she cherishes overworking and tiredness. Even when I try to objectively compare my results and accomplishments, and results of student X for example, I certainly do better in getting closer to finishing my degree. So I do not understand why I do not deserve support and appreciation. 

Sorry, it is such a long rant, today was hard. It is something that bothers me nearly every day, because it is so pronounced in our lab working environment.

TL;DR: my PI is unfair, does not appreciate other's work, likes some people more than others and support only them.

Any shares and comments are greatly appreciated.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",7,0,259.69088578832645,GradSchool
Undergraduate Freshman Who is Really Keen on Going to Grad School,"Hi,

I'm a current freshman at Rutgers University who is pursuing a degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering. I like to think about my future a lot, and I am really keen on pursuing graduate studies after I finish my Bachelor's here. I've done a lot of research, and I've set my eyes on Stanford University as my ultimate dream school for grad.  I would like to get some advice. What should I focus on doing throughout my undergraduate career that will help me get to Stanford? Thank you so much. ",5,0,261.2404691216598,GradSchool
Freaking out about a comment I made in the class I teach,"I split my students up into groups to discuss their free-writes, and I joked about not lynching each other over disagreements. It was a two-second comment. I'm not white, but I'm racially ambiguous, and my class is very diverse.

I sent out an apology email to my students admitting the language was racially charged and I should never have said it. I offered to talk about the comment with anyone who wanted to, and fully acknowledged the history of the term and that it shouldn't ever be used jokingly.

I'm freaking out that I'm going to get kicked out of my program. I'm going to be sick. It was a two-second jokey comment, and no one commented or reacted. Did I make it worse? What the fuck have I done???",11,0,265.4963834735117,GradSchool
Forever hating myself for getting an undergrad degree in Psych,"In my first year of grad school and I am miserable. Some of my professors are way too picky over little things in the assignments I turn in. I feel stuck, like I have to stay in grad school if I want a good white collar job since my undergrad degree is in Psychology. If you are wanting to make a snarky or personal attack on what I posted go elsewhere, your response is unneeded. ",8,0,365.8658973624006,GradSchool
Patronizing assignment,Sorry I’m just here to complain... I’m in a course where my professor is making us turn in reading summaries weekly to make sure we’re doing the reading. I’ve taken plenty of courses with heavy reading and have never had to do anything like this. It’s so tedious to take my notes that I’m already taking on the reading and turn them into comprehensive summaries! You don’t have to make sure we’re reading it’s literally all that we do!,12,0,382.7710825475857,GradSchool
Which masters degree should I pick to end up working at Nike/Reebok,"Hi, I'm a Product Design Engineer and my dream is end up working in the design or innovation department of any sport related brands. I would love to specialize myself in the development of clothing technology so I need advice on what Masters degree to specialize in the states (I am a foreigner but want to study abroad). Any info would be awesome, thanks :)! ",4,0,408.089091806845,GradSchool
"I want to become a Vet, but I’m not too good at Math or Science. What steps should I take to change?","For the last few months, I’ve discovered some key components of my personality that have been drawing me to medicine. I’m willing to work with a private tutor. I’m finishing my bachelors and am thinking about working with a tutor to build my confidence before I dive headfirst into that track. I want to know what I should teach myself to be prepared for that track of study. Any advice is welcome! ",9,1,457.0984320846228,GradSchool
"Why is it ""easy"" to write the usual class essay, but not a thesis","I've written 20 page essays with no problem at all, but am trying to gather ideas together for a thesis and make everything flow. Also received back my prof's comments....should I work more independently or ask prof to review my next draft? Will this leave a bad impression if I want to pursue a PhD in the future?",5,0,488.9982237512894,GradSchool
Which country in Europe is most apt for doing PhD?,"Hello friends, I am from India. Recently, I completed my Masters with major in Mathematics(pure).I want to go for PhD in pure Mathematics.

Consider the following points:

1. I am not that rich. I will need full funding for my PhD including living expenses. 

2. I have a severe stutter problem since childhood. I have a lot of difficulty in explaining my work to someone. I fear how will I adjust in a completely different country with this problem. Will people accept it and don't judge me in this. 

It becomes depressing when I know the answer/ideas but can't explain it properly to opposite person. (People are impatient)

3. I would say that I am more than average student. My CGPA during Masters was 8.8 on scale of 10. 

Now considering these points, which country will be best for me.

P.S. I am ready to learn the language of the country and will be more than happy about it. Currently I am learning French just for fun.",18,0,564.6980848624006,GradSchool
Best advice for someone clueless taking the GRE?,"I take it in a few days.
Edit: took it yesterday thanks for all the advice! ",3,1,571.8020894920302,GradSchool
Georgia Tech vs UC Davis for Electrical Engineering PhD,I am trying to choose between UC Davis and Georgia Tech for PhD. Research projects at both schools are interesting. Georgia Tech is higher in rankings but UC Davis will give more stipend and housing is cheaper. How much do you think the quality between the two schools differs?,7,1,572.0104575475857,GradSchool
"Is it better to get a ""W"" grade or a ""B""?",During undergraduate with “W” meaning withdrawal.,9,0,584.7092654179561,GradSchool
Lied to about opening for Graduate Assistantship. Someone else was offered after I was told no openings.,"Hello all,

Long story short, I had emailed my department's program assistant in regards to a graduate assistantship. The advisor never got back to me via email, so I went and saw the advisor myself.

They told me that due to an 'error' I wasn't in the email lists (turns out I never received emails from the department), and said applications were due before the quarter and it's too late.

Another student, who finished her BA and is now doing the MA for the same folks, was offered a graduate assistantship weeks after I had inquired.

I find this to be incredibly unfair. What approaches and routes could I take?",11,2,627.9099251401783,GradSchool
"Intend to apply for a PhD in bioinformatics and genomics, have B.tech and MS degrees in biotechnology but little research experience in bioinformatics, what are my chances?",,8,0,657.3910362512894,GradSchool
"Politely asking professor to give a good grade and avoid academic probation, bad idea?","I know professors probably get tons of email like this normally so I don't know if this might actually make it worse. Grades have not been posted for this class yet, but I need an A in this class to avoid academic probation (<3.33 GPA).

My situation is that I am a first year PhD student in department X taking 3 classes my first quarter and need at least a 3.33. I should note I was doing average (~85%) in the class up to the final but it didn't help that this class was in department Y with topics that I had never seen before and I joined 3 weeks late. Never really been in this situation before so I don't really want to possibly make things worse by annoying the professor with the email.",10,0,664.8595084735116,GradSchool
"What are some best graduate programs in Diversity and Inclusiveness in the States? I being an Undergraduate in IT, am I eligible to apply for such programs? I want to change my career path to best match my current interests. I'm also Deaf.",,2,0,769.4372862512894,GradSchool
Do you think that students outside of North America are at a disadvantage?,"Obviously this is field dependent, but in general I've noticed that a lot of grants etc. are for North American students only. I'm outside of North America, and it's relatively uncommon for PhD students in my field to apply for and secure their own funding/grants during PhD. Do you think this puts us at a disadvantage when job hunting? ",11,0,773.7152607883265,GradSchool
PHD program and long distance boyfriend visiting,"I'm just now starting a PhD program. My boyfriend has a week off in the Fall. He also has a lot of miles, which could make a flight across the country as low as $10.

My question is, would it be a bad idea for him to visit me during this week? I told him when I have class and office hours (i'm off thurs/fridays), and I know I'll probably have to do some reading and homework (although I would try to get as much done as possible before).

Is it possible to try to get as much work done as possible beforehand so that I would have time to spend with him? thank you in advance for any advice",8,0,778.7702607883265,GradSchool
"When one fails comps, what does one do next?","I'm scheduled to take my PhD comps exam in Spring 2018. I have the reading list, I'm doing the reading, and I felt okay until I saw some sample questions from previous years. 99.99% I'm going to fail it. 

So, when that happens, what should my next move be? Adjunct forever? Try a different degree program? Melt into my stupidity and never show my face again?",3,0,812.9433973624006,GradSchool
Anyone know how prerequisite courses can be completed in time for M.S.?,"I've contacted my academic coordinator, but it's a weekend.

So my undergrad is in a different engineering field than what I'm majoring in for MS, so there are upper div prereqs I haven't taken yet.

Are students in these situations supposed to cram these courses in to graduate within 2 years, or do they get an extension?",8,0,842.1358857883265,GradSchool
"Just got accepted into grad school, now what?","I just got accepted into a biochemistry MS program, what are some things I should be weary of or things I can do to get a head start?",2,0,885.7182931957338,GradSchool
Grad School Affiliate,"Hello grad students and fans of grad students!!

I am not attending grad school but everything in my life and current surroundings can be attributed to my significant other attending grad school. I'm posting this because I am so proud of what he is doing. He works hard and doesn't let things FESTER. He just received an offer to work for an Organisation over the summer and he couldn't be happier--- and neither could I !! I just want to shout out how proud and happy I am because I see how difficult it is but when you try and you are passionate- things can seem a bit less difficult. 

Proud of all grad school attendees but especially my best friend!!!<3",2,2,941.6381195846227,GradSchool
Question for Canadin Grad Students,"I'm currently a highschooll student sitting on her uni offers for undergrad. I'm deciding between an Honours Degree in Cognitive Sciences, BA in Linguistics (maybe with a psychology double major), and another BA in Linguistics with a bilingual degree. 

My plan it to apply to grad school for Speech Language pathology. Would what undergrad I persue affect my chances of getting in, if I take all the prereqs and all?

If so, which degree would be the best? Does an honours degree make you more appealing to grad schools?",3,0,1235.783628843882,GradSchool
Nervous,"A Few questions and concerns...Got into a PhD program. Kinda nervous I wont be able to pull it off, I am sure people have had these doubts before. Any help in casting away these doubts?

Second part...It has come to my attention that my application got pushed through because a teacher specifically wanted me to work with him. As it turns out because of this I have been black balled and no other offers will be coming and the program/dept. will not extend me a TA position. I either work with my one and only offer or pay for it myself (which I can but would rather not). I could work with who I want if I pay for it myself, but still have to have the PI agree to me joining their group.

It also turns out that if I dont work with this guy he will not be able to receive the grant money at all, and lose the offer. Hence why I am being pushed into this scenario, help, ideas, thoughts?",2,0,1294.342992269808,GradSchool
"Is an MS in EEB (Ecology, Evolution & Behavior) worth it?","I'm really torn between some programs that I'm interested. I'm looking at Geography and Geology, but I just recently learned of EEB as an option. It's an interdisciplinary program that takes courses from different areas like Geology, Geography, Biology and Psych. EEB seems to have all the classes that excite me the most (I'm very heavily into Ecology), but  I think Geography or Geology might be good for me to pursue to gain some more practical skills (programming, GIS, remote sensing).

I'm ultimately looking into getting into ecological research and eventually work with wildlife and I'm worried that EEB might not be enough to set me apart from the pack. I feel like the aforementioned technical skills would be what helps me in this regard. I'm also thinking it could help me the type of pay I receive.

What do you think of this?

",8,0,1330.357540880919,GradSchool
Need some tips for PhD interviews coming soon! (Biology programs),"(x-post from r/biology) 

I've searched the subreddit and sidebar and I know this has been posted before, but just wanted to ask again and maybe get input from new people this time. I'm excited to have interviews with multiple schools!

What are some really good questions to ask the faculty interviewing me? Any tough questions I should be prepared for from them?

What are some good questions to ask the current grad students?

What should I wear? I've heard business casual, but not sure how formal I should be. Should I wear a tie? How about for the social events?

Should I go ahead and send emails to PIs that I'm interested interviewing with? Before I applied, I emailed professors and only had two respond with interest. Should I touch base with them again now, and should I try to contact professors again that never replied to me?",3,0,1354.1192075475858,GradSchool
Seeking comments to improve SOP for MS in Public Health.,"Any advice/comments on how to improve my SOP are welcome.

*I am a socially conscious individual who is concerned about my country’s growing waste and wants to actively partake in finding a viable solution to our waste management and disposal needs. Although my undergraduate degree in Civil Engineering equipped me with the basics of environmental engineering and policy making, and shed light on the different areas of the field I could work in, it is my personal experiences that cemented my aim to pursue an MS in Public Health.

I am witness to the neglect that surrounds waste disposal and management in the city of ###, ###, to the lack of technical know-how in ways to manage waste, and to its resulting consequences. The effects of untreated waste being dumped in areas where human activity is common, its effects on air, water, land quality is cause for great worry. The health of the people that inhabit these lands is cause for great concern to me. My surroundings being pollution-free is important to me. I wish to be a part of the solution that aims to implement sustainable waste management ideas and secure the health of people, for which I need the knowledge that I believe a Masters in Public Health will equip me with. UNC Chapel Hill’s MS in Public Health program with its research interests in implementation and improvement of sanitation services in developing nations, environmental policy making, and global health will be ideal for me in pursuing a career in policy making and management. Within the department, I would like to work with Dr. ###, Dr. ###, Dr. ###, Dr. ###, Dr. ### In order of most favored area of research to least:

Global environmental health Policy, decision-making and risk analysis Design and analysis of engineered systems Contaminant sources, fate and transport

I believe by implementing clear and effective policies and taking steps driven by technical expertise, the quality of life in ### cities can be improved. With these thoughts in mind, I want to contribute to improving the health of the environment and people on a global scale through my participation with UN bodies as I advance in my career.

My year at ### University was an eye-opener. I was overwhelmed trying to balance the course load and a part-time job that required me to work at night. I eventually realized that time management is key to excelling in graduate school, which is why I’ve come to the conclusion that I will not be in a position where I will have to manage a part-time job, courses and research work. I secured a job soon after I arrived in ### and have been saving up to fund my way through graduate school. This measure will ensure that I have a comfortable stay in school and allow me to focus on academics and research.

My year at ### University has also been instrumental in shaping my commitment to the environment. I spent my year working with accomplished professors and students in the water and wastewater treatment field through time in course labs and research work that were eye-openers to opportunities and my own growing interest in the field. I had a demanding part-time job that taught me lessons in time management, and it is a combination of these experiences that will be strong building blocks in graduate school.*
",2,0,1357.366279306845,GradSchool
Slow to learn lab techniques--where the hell will I find a niche?,"Disclaimer: The pessimistic tone here reflects my recent frustration; I've gone into all of the experiences described here optimistic and excited to learn. Don't mistake my current discouragement for a general state of mind when approaching learning.

Background: MD/PhD in GR1 year, currently on my fourth* 40+ hr/week lab rotation. Have always received high praise (including during rotations) for my ability to critically read, analyze, make cohesive sense of literature on a topic, write, come up with hypotheses and experiments. Major interest: GPCR signaling and gene expression changes in neuronal groups targeted by psychiatric drugs (basically, catecholaminergic populations).

*Fourth rotation--technically because one rotation was only 9 days. Was in an electrophysiology lab for what was meant to be a 3-week rotation project (including the learning curve). I was still only successfully patch-clamping maybe 1 in 20 neurons by day 9 (in spite of 8-10 hour days of practice, including the one weekend I was rotating), which the PI acknowledged was ""well behind"" the typical pace for mastering patch clamp. The patch clamp technique was being taught under the supervision of the PI himself, whose lab revolves entirely around electrophys. We mutually agreed that I should just move on to the next.

My last, and most promising (more accurately, least un-promising) rotation was in a genetics-psychiatry lab working with mice. There, I was abysmally slow to learn to use the cryostat (and still mangled most of my samples for my last project, after having sliced+mounted a good 6-8 brains prior to that). Was odiously slow at getting confocal images until the very end of that three-month rotation--and still failed to get a figure-quality image from a bunch of otherwise beautiful FISH stains of some neurons. I did, however, write a small, private grant application regarding some unexplored data that we were basing my experiments off of--and the PI had to make very few minor edits before submitting.

Am now in a drosophila neuroscience lab, and have successfully dissected out 2 mangled brains (out of about 60-70 practice flies) after 3 days of 4-6 hours of practice a day.

I have the intellectual goods for graduate school, and no one's arguing that, but I seem to be inept at picking up any sort of hands on/visual-motor-coordination technique of any sort. Worse yet, I have no background in coding or the like, so computational research is as good as out (not that I would want to do it anyhow). But how the hell can I get through grad school when I apparently can't pick up any sort of wet lab technique whatsoever? 

tl;dr Grad student trying to find a thesis lab; consistent delivery on the intellectual-goods side; absolutely miserable at learning actual hands-on techniques. No computational background whatsoever. Leads to questions: **How do I even get through graduate school when the time to learn a technique appears to always be a larger-than-normal drain of time and resources?** **Is there some way to take a purely theoretical approach to a thesis in a field like neuroscience--i.e., something involving poring over literature in different sub-sub-sub-sub-niches, synthesizing into review-like formats, and generating new hypotheses based on what is collectively known without necessarily testing them oneself?**",2,1,1361.7583047698079,GradSchool
applying to jobs?,"Howdy! After a rough two years, I finally figured out how to leave my PhD program with a masters in hand, YAY! My question now is, when should I start applying to jobs? I plan on applying to behavioral health type jobs and will most likely be done with my degree in August. Is it too early to start now and put an August start date? I've never applied to jobs (went right to grad school from undergrad) so I am not sure how this all works. Thanks so much!!",10,0,1398.2247515290671,GradSchool
Decline a fully funded PhD offer after accepting it,"Hello,

I accepted a fully funded PhD offer with a graduate research assistantship, and after thinking more thoroughly about it, I am now convinced that the research area is not in line with what I am passionate about and I will quickly lose interest in pursuing this research work.

Any advice on how to handle this situation will be greatly appreciated, knowing that I have already performed a change of level from Master to PhD and am supported as a GRA.

Thank you.",4,0,1400.283003843882,GradSchool
Any advice on how to feel like less of a moron while preparing for the GRE?,"I began studying for the GRE this week via Magoosh, and quite frankly, I feel like a moron. The lessons are allowing me to refresh quickly and I love the challenge, but I can't help but be skeptical of my February test date and that it might be too soon. I haven't seen math like this since high school (over a decade ago!) and as I watch the videos I realize that I'm nowhere close to being ready to even take a practice test. Part of me wonders how I even graduated high school to begin with! :P

For those of you who have taken the GRE (or a similar standardized test for grad school admittance), what strategies did you use to stay positive and build confidence through the studying process?",6,0,1435.0591496772154,GradSchool
My undergraduate advisor claimed that it's better for me to apply to grad school for 2016 without the GREs (or subject for math/physics) than to apply for 2017 with them. Can anybody attest to this?,"I plan to apply directly into a PhD program, and my physics GPA is ~3.3.",18,0,1435.2080385661043,GradSchool
Just realized grad school is so different,I just had my first grad class today.....and can't believe how in depth it is compared to undergraduate. From same university btw. Any tips please on how to do well?,5,1,1497.8969737512894,GradSchool
Which MPA program can I get into?,"Hi guys,

I've been recently thinking about what my next steps are in my career and life, and have taken a strong interest in public policy, and socio-economic reform. Ideally I would like some job in the form of a policy analyst, but TBH I've only started thinking about this, so everything is open to me right now. Question is - which MPA program is best for me, and what can I get into?

* I went to UW in Seattle, a public research university so not top tier, but pretty decent.
* Majored in Finance with CISB (a certificate program in int'l business): 3.43 GPA... a bit low
* In addition to all my business core and finance/econ classes, I took a few poly sci/int'l economics courses: Int'l Human Rights, Compet in Global Econ (strategy/consulting in international environment), Japanese politics, Trade Operations
* Studied abroad in Japan, took int'l finance courses
* Job experience includes an internship at a investment research firm (risk classification catalog of 90 countries), and currently working as a Financial Analyst at a F250 retailer

I want to be involved in some sort of socio-economic development job (NGO... private sector?), but doesn't have to be something like alleviating poverty or evaluating environmental policies. Evaluating domestic policies sounds exciting to me as well. 

Any help would be appreciated!",3,0,1533.8995894920301,GradSchool
My lab has become some sort of horrible clique,"I'm getting to the stage where I want to punch walls. The postdoc in charge is a sanctimonious ass who seems to think that everyone should just do as he says because he's in charge, and further has absolutely no people skills. His partner, who is also in the lab and is not a postdoc seems to have taken in on herself to be appointed as his queen and send out carefully worded, but clearly finger-pointing emails to the lab about how we're all very naughty and don't follow the rules. 

I feel like I'm in high school and I want to be as far away from the lab as possible, which is obviously not very good for me. My PI is on sabbatical and to be honest, since I don't have any solid evidence to bring to anyone, I don't see how I can talk to anyone about it. Also, the subtle nuances of lab interactions are kind of lost on my PI. The hostility is very directed; if you asked most other lab members, they'd probably report there was nothing wrong. Also a lot of the lab members are younger than me and I think they don't see exactly what's going on.

I'm absolutely incensed - and I want to do something to defend myself....but what?

*Edit - Having re-read this I feel I may come off as being a little paranoid...however I'm not the only person to take issue with their behavior*",3,0,1538.0382931957338,GradSchool
Graduate School Prospects and Life Decisions,"I'm writing to ask about my prospects of getting into a highly ranked grad program and to solicit some broader life advice. I'm a rising senior in a humanities field.

This isn't really a ""getting into grad school with a bad GPA"" post - my GPA is objectively fine as it's in the mid to low 3.6 range - it's just not quite to the level the top programs usually operate within.

Specs (Some of this a little presumptive, but I'd appreciate if you would bear with me here):
- I'm in the honors college at one of the better state schools (ranked between 15-20 among all schools for my major)
- I can likely raise my GPA closer to the 3.7 range by the time I graduate; the 3.6 was maintained with a bare minimum of effort. That GPA is at least partially brought down by 2 substandard grades in introductory courses that have nothing to do with my major. In-major GPA is roughly 3.8
- I'm confident in my ability to do well on standardized tests. After prep, I'd be very disappointed with anything lower than the 97th percentile nationally on the GRE
- I can get good (though perhaps not overwhelmingly great) letters of rec
- This post notwithstanding, I am a good writer. Professors have remarked positively on my writing ability and one especially writing-focused professor encouraged me to pursue a career that involved ""writing in some capacity""
- I'm writing a senior thesis in the fall. Hopefully it will be good
- I've done one internship thus far, and while it involved some research, it was only tangentially related to my major.

The academic job market being what it is, I feel as though I'd need to go to a top (i.e. top 10) school to get a job in a place I like. One thing (among many) that worries me about an academic career is the prospect of ending up in a location I hate - even though I might have a good job. A tenured professorship at, say, Iowa State University is by any reasonable standard a good academic job, but I have no desire to live in Ames, Iowa. I need to live in a city, or at least near one

I sometimes wonder whether I'm too much of a dilettante to really commit to something as rigorous as a dissertation. Not that I think I'm incapable of writing one - I suppose it's just a question of passion, I guess; the entire reason I would pursue a graduate degree and take the risk of entering the academic job market is that it's ostensibly a more fulfilling career path than law (the other likely option). That isn't a sure thing, is what I'm saying. The recent death of a rich grandparent means I can do t14 law (I can probably get into a few programs, though I likely won't be able to predict which ones) without much debt - meaning I would hopefully be able to take a position in public interest and avoid a soul-crushing corporate one. I'm actually leaning towards this path right now, but statistics pointing towards lawyers' high rates of depression don't help. Really, my dream job would be something like ""general culture writer"" for the Atlantic / NY Mag / The Nation, etc. But those positions are hard to come by and almost universally filled by Ivy League grads. I probably should have written for the newspaper to keep my options open, but my first two years of college were an unhappy time dealing with anxiety and a sort of low-level depression. All of this is to say that, while I have some ideas in mind, things are very much up in the air.

Thanks for reading. I hope I didn't sound like too much of an asshole. Please help?
",6,0,1541.199369584623,GradSchool
"Studying for the GRE, question--got a book online that was published in 2011, is that recent enough to match up with whta the test will actually be like?","I know they just changed the edition so I want to make sure.

I appear to be doing well on the practice tests though, which is good since I've neglected to even think about it until t minus 10 days before test time.",5,2,1577.970515417956,GradSchool
Was this a test,So my professor asked me if I know how to use SPSS because he doesn't have time to teach. Why did he say that? Was it a test just to see if I can be independent? I've only learned basic SPSS stuff from his past course.,4,0,1618.4072978253635,GradSchool
What are my chances? Materials Science Ph.D.,"Dear /r/gradschool,

I hope that this question is appropriate for this subreddit. Moreover, I hope that individuals with more experience than myself can provide me with advice since my internet research on materials science graduate programs in the United States has proven fruitless.

&nbsp;

Next year I will be a senior at Vassar College, in New York and upon graduating I will receive and BA in Chemistry. During the summer between my sophomore and junior year I conducted research at the University of Kansas in the field of organocatalysis. This summer I will be performing research at the University of Berkeley, in California, focusing on arene functionalize with metal complexes. In addition, I have conducted research since the 2nd semester of my sophomore year at Vassar College (3 semesters completed so far). This past academic year, I have been working on the electromodification of carbon nanotubes with prussian blue using cyclic voltammetry. I presented at an ACS conference about two weeks ago. Furthermore, I have expanded that research topic and have begun examining this electrode's pseudocapacitor capabilities by performing charging/discharging experiments. Also, For the last three semester I have been a lab intern, assisting students in lab as well as grading pre-labs (general chemistry and organic chemistry).

&nbsp;

I have begun thinking about future graduate programs I would like to apply to and I have realized that I would like to do research in applied chemistry, such of organic photovoltaics, reduction of CO2 into useable organic materials, or metal-organic frame works (energy storage/conversion). As a result, I have been looking into materials science graduate programs and feel as if I am at a disadvantage due to my liberal arts background.

&nbsp;

I have taken:
* Calculus I
* Intro to stats
*Linear Algebra 
* Microbiology
* Biochemistry
* Fundamentals Physics I/II
* Inorganic Chemistry
* General Chemistry I/II
* Organic Chemistry I/II
* Instrumental Analysis
* Physical Chemistry Thermo
* * * * I will take - PChem Quantum, Multivariable, a year-long senior thesis

&nbsp;

If it helps, I attended an early-entrance-to-college program and have an associates in science degree (where I have taken up to calc II).


&nbsp;

So after all that back information, what are my chances at being admitted in a materials science graduate program? I have read some programs accept chemistry majors, but do not mention many details. Other programs mention that candidates with related undergraduate degrees to materials science may **have to take remedial courses.** Has anyone gone through this process, any advice? Could I do anything my senior year to better prepare? I realized that although I like organic chemistry, I need my research to be applicable and have an effect on the world around me. If a materials science graduate program is not an option I was thinking inorganic chemistry graduate program would be just as worthy, correct? I was also thinking about sending Dr. Bocarsly at Princeton an email asking him about his thought about my participation in Princeton's PRISM program because his research suit my current interests.


&nbsp;

Thank you for your time and advice! (A side thought, I would like to work in the private sector after graduation.)
 ",10,0,1619.1333857883267,GradSchool
Motivation letter for grad school,"Hello, I'm applying to German grad school.
I need to write a motivation letter but I really have no clue how to write it. Can someone give me useful tips and advice?
If anyone could tell me what to write on each paragraph for a nice motivation letter, that you be surely fantastic...

Thank you for your help in advance!
Thank you! ",1,0,1661.3851218994378,GradSchool
Looking for proofreader for my PhD thesis.,"Hello all,

English is not my first language. I am looking for a proofreader to proofread and improve the English of my Thesis (I published a lot of chunks from it. it is not horrible but there is always room from improvement). Do you have anyone to suggest? I would prefer someone with experience. The total length of the document is 54,681 words or 168 pages arial 12 with 1.15 spacing.

The topic is human computer interaction and transport, so it is very readable and understandable.
",5,1,1678.2315570846229,GradSchool
GRE prep recommendations,"I need help with GRE study materials.. I got my bachelors in 2008 then joined the military, so it's been a little while since I've done any real school work.. Any recommendations for the best study guide/materials for the GRE?? Thank you! ",3,0,1680.3780964364746,GradSchool
Should I or should I not ask,Should I or should I not ask admissions each week about status?,2,0,1695.2342191216596,GradSchool
Should I accept this,I had an interview for research assistant position. And I was asked if I would be ok with recruitment process instead of actual conducting research. I'm in undergrad.,1,0,1717.0169506031411,GradSchool
Please help me get over my fear of the GRE!,"I'm a career changer that decided to leave the field of software sales and pursue a life in the healthcare field.  Over the past few years I have completed the core premed courses as well as all of the required courses for physician assistant school.  

My GPA from my previous degree was a 2.98 but I have managed to get it up to a 3.2.  My GPA over my last 34 semester hours is a 3.97 and I also became EMT certified.  I am currently obtaining clinical hours to get as much experience as possible.

For some reason, I keep mind f**king myself into putting the GRE aside instead of preparing for it and just taking it.  It feels like my body of work is a stack of Jenga blocks and I've convinced myself that if I don't get some ungodly score on this test, the tower is going to fall over.

Is there anyone out there that felt like this before getting into their programs?  Any advice you can give me to help me really just put my head down and do the prep work so I can take this test and jump through this hoop?  I appreciate any feedback in advance!",13,0,1743.1327144920301,GradSchool
Unique situation : Should I expect rejection?,"Though I'm extremely thankful for [This guide to grad school admission with a comparatively low GPA](http://www.reddit.com/r/gradadmissions/comments/25gmig/a_somewhat_notgentle_guide_to_getting_into_grad/), mostly because it applies so much to my current situation, I still would like some advice on my unique and unfortunate situation. 

**Background info**
Biology major, B.S., small university. 2.94 GPA. 1 year of undergraduate research in two labs - molecular biology lab, and a bioinformatics lab. Learned a plethora of useful techniques, how to read papers, etc...  Very uncompetitive low GRE scores. 



**Applied for**
Ph.D in Cancer Research program. 
Applied for a Cancer Research Ph.D (or molecular biology Ph.D to those universities which don't offer specifically cancer-related studies) to the following schools:
University of South Florida, 
University of Michigan, 
Vanderbilt, 
University of Nottingham, 
Loyola University, 
University of Texas Graduate schools of Biomedical Sciences , 
University of Tennessee Health Science Center 

**Unique situation**

Though I excelled in my undergraduate research (not reflected in my academic transcripts, of course) I encountered a very unique and terrible situation. I was terminated from the lab in which I worked, because the lab coordinator told me he didn't like my personality. I have virtually no enemies, tons of friends, and consider myself a genuinely respectful and outgoing person. None-the-less, I was fired from the lab and no attempt to appeal the decision saved me. 
Since I excelled in learning so many great techniques and getting a feel of laboratory research however, I've been able to (seemingly) impress the professors of my prospective schools. I can hold my own in scientific discussions regarding their publications, and explain to them in detail why I am an asset to the program even though my academic marks are not competitive. 


HOWEVER, what are they going to think when they see that my lab coordinator didn't write me a letter of recommendation? This is the great problem that I've come across. I've attempted to make up for my low GPA and GRE scores by detailing my undergrad research, but is it all for nothing since I will have no recommendation to back me up? 

The letters I do have are glowing, but what am I to do without one from the boss of the only place I've worked relevant to my prospects?

Should I lie? Should I not mention my research? Should I expect to be rejected? 
",2,2,1765.6889066216597,GradSchool
"I've just graduated from an actuarial program with a medal (highest academic result) but sick of actuarial science, want to continue with Mathematics, which math grad school might be willing to accept me?",,4,0,1772.5416843994376,GradSchool
When is a good time to contact programs/professors?,I will likely apply to a PhD program fall 2015. Should I reach out before I apply? When? To whom? Thanks!,2,0,1777.7868464364744,GradSchool
"How would you handle ""snobby"" attitudes by certain classmates?","I did not think this would happen at the graduate level when it never happened in my undergraduate years, but I noticed since I started graduate school that there are certain people in my cohort that have a ""superior"" way about them. For example, I had a classmate who made snarky comment about me while I was taking notes in class, that I didn't have to because it will be posted. Her tone it what made me not appreciate the comment. Also another girl in one of my groups is hogging the assignment because she always gets perfect and doesn't trust anyone else to do well in the group. Same person didn't want to sit next to me because we weren't close friends. 

I could go on. Is it possible that because I am attending a lower-tiered school that people are this way? I really don't know what to make of it.

TL;DR - How to handle unfriendly, superior-inflicting classmates? In a course-based program if it matters. ",10,1,1855.837876529067,GradSchool
How to write a power statement of purpose for Grad School,,1,2,1865.454994584623,GradSchool
"Work at home traveller, Desperate for a grad degree, is there any hope in online degrees?","I know that title's pretty confusing, so I'll try to clear it up.

I graduated in Dec. 2011 with two humanities degrees (history and classics) and I've since become a pretty competent web marketer.  I make my living online, working from home, but I'm desperate for a higher degree. 

I was accepted into some pretty great law schools, but while I'm still young, I don't want to be locked in place anywhere for 3 years.  I'll be until I'm 30 (about 5 years away) and working online.  I really want to find a great online program while traveling, but so far it's been quite the dearth of quality schools.  

Any suggestions?  I'm really interested in almost anything (save education and nursing), so any business/economics, history, philosophy, sociology, strategic communiccations majors are right up my alley.",25,0,1901.6967191216597,GradSchool
Type of graduate school.,"Hello,

Before I begin, I want to apologize if this isn't the right place. Maybe /r/gradadmissions might be better, so I can move it if need me.

I would just some like advice. I am currently abroad, but when I get back to the states I want to enter graduate school. My current route is to practice and take the GRE, and then apply while still abroad. 

However my undergrad is a BA(science related), and I would like to get into a science field, bio or ochem. Should I be taking the GRE or another test? I am also looking for school in Europe where the GRE isn't taken, so what's my option there? I do email professors that I know occasionally, but I would like to get some more general advice.

I am using this as one of many outlets to get my questions answered, so I don't expect fully detailed responses, just something to move me along and further specify my inquiries. 

Thanks!",2,1,1982.8631890290671,GradSchool
"Geology BA (with field camp, internships, 2 yrs lab exp., geology club president)","I am going to get a BA in Geology at UC Davis. As stated in the title, I have tried to make my time here as useful as possible by being involved with a lot more than the minimum classes. I want to apply to grad school, and I want feedback on my chances of getting into schools like: Penn State, Texas A&M, Long Beach State for a MA in Structural Geology. The only class series I haven't taken is Petrology. The other hitch is I failed Intro to Optical Mineralogy, I could have retaken in, but since it wasn't required for a BA, I opted to put those units towards finishing my minor (not very useful, it was an Art Studio minor) and I want to know if having a class that I failed that I didn't retake for a better grade will keep me out of the running completely, or if I explain I was a new transfer student who bite off more than I could chew if the rest of my transcript would shine through. Sorry for the typos in advance.

edit: GPA is 3.0

UPDATE: Found out I can retake the class after I graduate through the UC Davis Open Campus program! Also, I have taken Calc21A&21B, Chem 2A&2B, and Phys7A&7B. And the additional classes needed for a BS are Calc 21C, Chem2C, Phys 7C, Met Pet and Ig pet (these are the classes I didn't have time to take before I hit the unit cap) I changed majors and so only so much could be applied to Geology hence only having time to finish the BA. ",18,0,2003.8651334735116,GradSchool
"Master's degrees in the healthcare field, need help!","**sorry if this is the wrong, sub, I've looked at /r/nursing, /r/jobs, and /r/healthcare, which don't seem like the right place for me to post this.

I'm a junior looking into nursing, but I'm afraid I won't get in with a (current 2.9 GPA, hopefully getting it up to a 3.1 when I graduate). I'm primarily looking into an ADN (associates in nursing) program. 

However, if that doesn't happen, I need a backup plan. I'm looking into master's programs for degrees in the healthcare field and I'm just really overwhelmed.

I'm thinking about healthcare administration, primarily. Can anyone help direct me to information about that? Any good schools that would take me with a 2.9-3.2 GPA? ",0,1,2061.0155617142523,GradSchool
Need some help identifying reach/safety schools (xpost gradadmissions),"Hi guys, I posted this in gradadmissions but didn't really get any responses... Wondering if you guys can help me out here.

I double majored Business and computer information systems with a 3.3 (graduated in 3 years). I took the GRE last week and got a 160 quant/159 verbal.

I'm looking to apply to some MS Computer Engineering programs for Fall 2014.

Can anyone suggest/recommend a few reach/safety schools that I should apply to?

I do not really have any criteria... Just want to attend the school that will most likely yield the best results job wise.


Thanks very much in advance for your help!

",5,0,2082.1752839364744,GradSchool
I want to negotiate the starting salary (4100 USD/month),"Hello guys!

I've applied to a PhD program at a Swedish university. The starting salary is roughly 4100 USD per month. However, the university's website also mentions that candidates who have acquired relevant work experience can receive a higher starting salary.

I have worked for 3 years as a part-time teacher and one semester as a full-time university lecturer (at a foreign university) in the same subject as the doctoral program. I've also authored and published books on study techniques in the context of higher education, this in connection to a website that I have operated for the past 6 years directed at university students. 

Would this constitute grounds for asking for a higher starting salary? If so, what figure do you think is reasonable to ask for and also; where do I raise these concerns, to the HR department or to my supervisor? I have the interview scheduled for next week. ",37,0,2083.394230695734,GradSchool
Grad schools?,"Hey y'all,

I need a bit of help looking for grad schools. I've only found one school that has a master of science and does research on biomass to products.  Are there any researchers/universities that do this kind of work and has a master program? I found a handful that do PhDs but that's not my thing. 

Thanks,
Primase. ",7,0,2156.6589066216598,GradSchool
Big question: who know about a liberal arts program that prepares students to face and have an effect on the challenges of globalization?,"I'm looking for a graduate program, masters of PhD, that takes on the challenges of globalization. I mean TPP, neoliberalism, the oil industry...essentially, a degree that applies social theory with world affairs and utilizes the market and other routes to pressure for policy change. I know this is big and vague, but I need somewhere to start. I'll provide better details later after I read into this more on my own.",5,2,2157.8183973624004,GradSchool
Why a good night’s sleep is a Grad Student’s best friend,,0,0,2163.9248093994374,GradSchool
mba study group ?,anyone want to join and make a small group to practice for gmat at the canton public library ?,0,1,2168.1385131031416,GradSchool
i don't always stay up for 48 hours straight...,,4,0,2224.5391496772154,GradSchool
Fire and Emergency Management M.S./PhD,"I am interested in hearing viewpoints from all if you fine graduate students and professionals on the topic of fire an emergency management as a graduate degree. I did undergrad at a big state university, with a major in Geography, and plan on applying to Oklahoma State for their masters program in F&EM. I also plan on obtaining my GIS certification during that time from osu. 

",5,1,2325.367980695734,GradSchool
Planning to go on to grad in 2014. Having a freak out... talk me down please?,"I am a 30 year old undergrad who has 2 semesters left in a biology program, wanting to go on to graduate school. 

I started out wanting to teach high school, and began to realize that

1) I definitely do not think I would be happy teaching high school

2) I really, really love science. 


I took on an undergrad teaching assistant position, and have begun to find myself overwhelmed. I have 17 credit hours, plus this- and some of those hours are organic chemistry II. 

Anyhow. 

I am so afraid that due to underperformance on exams I am going to hurt my chances to go on, and I have no idea what I would do if I do NOT go on. I really want to- the things I am interested in studying are not taught or researched at my school and I actually enjoy all of this... stress and all. 

I worry that not getting A's will make it that much harder to be accepted, and right now if I keep going the way I am, I'll be likely sitting on mostly B's (for Organic, that would may be a stretch). 

Here's another thing... I don't know what I even COULD do if I go through graduate school, as I have been on this high school teacher trajectory for so long. I am also in a place where I have one year left, and my research experience is somewhat minimal, and I am not sure of my chances of acquiring research experience in the time I have left- at least any in time for applying to schools. 

To add to the pressure cooker, I have a family. If I am going to shift my whole family to a new place I really want it to be to go to a quality school, and I would *have* to have a way to supplement my husband's income some in order to survive. ",7,2,2412.87052699203,GradSchool
"Grad school reading loads and ""scanning""—what a load of crap",,0,1,2572.2925524549933,GradSchool
My exact reaction to reading first year papers,,30,39,2163.131915880919,GradSchool
"Traits/skills I learned that are oversold and overrated (or ""why your PhD has no added value"")","Well, this year has been signed by a lot of failure and professional/personal growth (isn't that contradictory? nope, it is not).

After doing research in different countries for 5 years, I wanted to share with you what I have learned, and why I came to the realization that most information concerning Grad School, Life Sciences, Business and Entrepreneurship is a huge sea of horseshit. Here we go, lessons I learned:

1) Passion is overrated and oversold

Steve Jobs once said ""People say you have to have a lot of passion for what you're doing and it's totally true. And the reason is because it's so hard that if you don't, any rational person person would give up"".

I'd like you to focus your attention to the words RATIONAL PERSON. In professional careers, and in life in general you need reason. Reason allows you to set priorities, set realistic goals, and choose a path that is doable. Passion and drive go a long way AS LONG AS THEY DON'T INTERFERE WITH YOUR RATIONAL THINKING AND IMPEDE YOU FROM SEEING THE CLIFF AT THE END OF THE ROAD. There is a moment to be passionate for what you do, and a moment to start setting realistic goals and being pragmatic. That moment varies from person to person, yet it will come. You cannot live from passion, your angel investors will not buy a new car or go on vacation with your passion... unless it is rooted in serious and realistic goals. When realism kicks in, passion goes out.

Why is there such a huge amount of assholes (YES, ASSHOLES) speaking about passion, motivation and pink unicorns? Well... simple: because it sells. We all like romantic ideas and stories with happy endings. All the motivational gibberish you read in blogs and seminars is fueled by people who need to put a dish in the table and realized that the best business is to motivate other people to start business.

2) You work to live, not the other way around

For at least 2 of the 5 years I have done research, my workday (freelance, corporate and/or laboratory) had an average duration of 10-12 hours... and I earned 1000 dollars in average. No wonder why I went on vacation only 2 times i the last 8 years.

When we are young we dream of living like rockstars. you know, car, parties, vacation, friends, girls, ecc. And there is nothing wrong with it, eventually you feel the need to settle and form a family. Somewhere along college, some lifeless professor/s gradually warp your brain and make you think that being a lab rat who does nothing but cell culture, gels, and PCR for a homeless salary is the best thing that could happen to you. FUCK THAT.

We are all human beings who have a limited period of time in this world. Some day, we will depart from this world, remember that. And when you are close to that moment, you are more likely to remember who did you spent your time with and how did you related to others more than how many Cell/Nature/Science you published.

Your job is supposed to give you a salary to spend time doing things you like with people you love. If it does not allow you to do that, then it does not serve its purpose, and you should look for a better deal.

3) Laboratory science is overrated and oversold

We all tend to believe that if we just manage to make that tumor we implanted in that immunosupressed rat vanish, we will have finally found the cure to cancer. Yeah, right. 

80% of laboratory research is horseshit, useless and non-reproducible. To make it even worse, it is conducted by PhD students who know shit about their field of research (and this is not their fault). Think it this way: would you allow your mother to be operated from an apendicitis by a sophomore in medical school? Then why do PhD students conduct cancer research nearly unsupervised while taking responsibility for producing results that may be used by regulatory agencies and/or medical authorities?

Let me tell you a secret, but don't tell anyone (because it is a secret). When you publish a paper there are two possible fates of your publication:

- toilet paper

- double checking in industry (yup, you read well... scientists in industry steal your ideas without hiring you and they first check if your research was faked with reproducing the experiment). If you are lucky, dome guy in industry will steal your idea without paying you.

Even if you manage to get your results outside the lab, and your cancer drug goes to a clinical trial, still the amount of non-human and human testing that it must go through is going to make it nearly impossible to get into the market. Think this: only 1 of 10000 potential new chemical entities gets to the end of phase III in clinical trials. Remember that next time you do drug testing for a new compound in your animal model.

4) Success is overrated

We all like achievement and strive for it. And that is good, it is what pushes us forward. However, achievement is meant to be a stepping stone for something better (a better job, early retirement, a better salary), not an end in itself. 

If what you are doing has no way of being presented as a relevant and valuable achievement in the next step in your career, then it is effing useless. You may think ""yeah, but my research is going to change the world for ever"". It is nice, but naive. How many PhD students have graduated ONLY in the last ten years? and how many of them have ""hit the ball out of the playing field""? How many grad students are national/worldwide celebrities for discovering ""that thing""? Is it higher than the number of people without PhD who followed a different path?

A small secret. Making a great discovery or ""hitting the jackpot"", whether you like it or not, is aimed at getting a hot girl a house and a car. The higher the jackpot, the better the car and the house, therefore the hotter the girl. But there is a catch. It is taking longer and longer for PhDs to hit the jackpot due to a myriad of factors; and chances are that if you are lucky enough to hit it, you won't be as interested as you originally were (it is called ""growing up"").

5) Creativity and innovation are oversold and overrated

Industry has standard procedures (SOP) for everything. Nearly every task you will do will have an SOP. There are even SOP for writing SOP. So all that creativity you had in preparing solutions and solving everyday lab problems has a label in industry: non-reproducible, unreliable, ineffective, inefficient and incorrect work. So, when you go from your research laboratory where you prepared phosphate buffer saline a different way every week to industry, you are likely to get your boss' foot in the ass for not following guidelines. In industry there is nearly no room for creativity, it may be even punished (it happened to me).

6) Working long hours is a FLAW and NOT a virtue

Remember when you spent 6 months working 12 hours a day running gels to characterize that protein in your pathway? In industry it may imply different things:

- you have no idea what you are doing

- the experiment is impossible to perform

- you are a lazy inefficient employee

Doing long hours is more likely to get you fired than get you a promotion. Companies pay special attention to workflows and workloads due to fear of being sued for employee burnout and/or having to pay overtime. Industry looks for the fastest, easiest and least problematic way of getting things done. If it does not serve that purpose, then they throw it away.


The million dollar question is: why should I do a PhD?

The answer is blunt: you shouldn't. It fucks your brain, your personality and the cost/benefit relation of the skills you develop for industry is shit. You can get the skills you need for industry without going through the misery of a PhD.

Can a PhD teach you something imprescindible for you to know?
At least in Life Sciences, NOPE. A PhD program can be a good motivator for you to move to another country (that is what happened to me), which is a great catalyst for growth. but the growth that comes from a PhD and only from a PhD is negligible.

thank you for reading, and don't forget to protect your fragile egos downvoting me! :)

",16,0,1403.2053302327708,GradSchool
The harsh truth of being a Japanese graduate student in photographic glory,,0,0,1216.780029306845,GradSchool
Academia is Quietly and Systematically Keeping its Women from Succeeding,,44,0,1261.2366843994375,GradSchool
Bad gpa but want to get into Grad program.,"My gpa is terrible for my major (2.3), however I have extensive work experience as a RF engineer at my company. But because of my GPA, my grad advisor in my school straight up told me he will not accept me as a grad student. I'm trying to find a way around this. Am I able to take grad classes non-matriculated to prove myself? Would it help if I took the GRE and scored highly on it?

EDIT: More info, my 2.3 is cumulative. At this point I am pretty sure my best bet is to take non-matriculated classes. I was told that since the major advisor rejected me, I would not be accepted even to non-matriculated at this school. Plan B: Take non-matriculated classes at another school?? > Transfer in? Thank you for the responses thus far!

This is a huge life decision and commitment and I really want to get a Master's.",20,3,2250.176649677215,GradSchool
It'll serve its purpose one way or another..,,2,23,614.9492075475857,GradSchool
"Universities should develop a 5-10 person team that act as editors and graphic designers for scientific publications. This would not only improve overall quality of work, but also create useful jobs for the humanities and make research more impactful","Maybe it is just me, but as an engineer, when I write a research paper or am making a presentation, I would love to have the writing and figures improved by someone before sending it off to journals or taking it to conferences.  I would actually especially love this for writing grants or fellowships.  The sciences and engineering often have the poorest writing and would benefit from having their work tweeked to make it more impactful through better writing and better figures from someone who's job is dedicated to that.  I mean, once the science part is done the writing part is just so boring compared to it.  I mean, I love writing down the first rough draft but making it sound elegant for publication is just not as interesting.

Does anyone's university have such thing where a certain small department is focused on improving all the research, grants, and presentations worked on to make them stronger from a writing and figure style?",48,36,2086.120932084623,GradSchool
That feeling when you think you've written your best research paper yet and it comes back as an 81.,Title says it all.  I wrote what I though was my best research paper yet and it was my lowest grade so far.  Anyone else experience this?,3,0,1112.2663024549931,GradSchool
What do you guys think?,"So I'm an MS bioinformatics student and I'm currently doing an internship focusing on learning comp sci (the gap of knowledge I have coming from bio) and my currently mentorship has been lackadaisical in that everyday I come in and just self teach and never really figure out how to incorporate best software/coding practices. In essence I feel as though this is a case of the blind leading the blind mixed in with some side effects of impostor syndrome.

What do you guys think of my predicament?",2,0,1198.4332353253635,GradSchool
Shot down hard for trying to negotiate stipend raise.,"I'm not really sure how to take this, but I asked my top choice that offered admission for a raise in stipend compared to another top choice of mine. 

When I got the response from the first school, it was a flat no (even though they asked for the stipend from the other school, which made me think it was in fact negotiable), and that XXXX would be a better fit for me. 

I was basically set on the first choice, but after such a rude response from one of the directors of the program, I am reconsidering. Money is not my only factor, but community and a certain level of respect from administration and directors are. I may have misjudged those from previous encounters it seems. 

What would you do? Am I taking this too close to heart? Is asking for a raise in stipend a stigma to be avoided prior to making a full decision or more common than what it seems?",24,0,1303.8635478253634,GradSchool
Is It Really Too Expensive to Pay Adjunct Professors a Decent Wage? (No),,3,2,1307.3510825475857,GradSchool
Relationship with a student?,Have any of you ever had a relationship with a student that you TA'd? How did it go? Did you start dating while you were teaching or afterwards?,21,1,1428.162702917956,GradSchool
Degrees: Do They Matter Anymore In Today’s Job Landscape?,,9,1,1470.1257006031412,GradSchool
Applying to grad school,"Hey all, I'm studying biomedical engineering. I'm just curious as to how important connections are to being accepted to grad school (pH.D.). I know that the process of finding a mentor is essential to which grad school you choose, but just in terms of the admission process. Thanks all!",10,1,1542.3029575475857,GradSchool
Would it be ok to email,"I had asked prof if I should email at end of May in regards to assisting with his project. He said he will email me since he has to figure out space, materials, etc. If I don't get an update next week, would it be ok to email prof with my June schedule?",3,0,1598.8456658809191,GradSchool
Final designed to let a 60% be a good score?,"Just a quick vent/survey. I took my first grad level course this semester. The design of the course was bizarre, 50% of the grade come from homework and 50% from a final test. During the test last night the majority of the class was struggling and working through the problems when the prof. says, ""you know a 60 would be a pretty good score on this test.""
What purpose would creating a test like this serve??? 
I studied, as he suggested all of our homework and similar problem types...but this test, it was a much harder than even the homework...

Anyone else have a similar experience, or an explanation as to the point of this....",14,0,1764.447054769808,GradSchool
"I think I want to go to Grad School, but I don't know what to study","I am doubling in Mathematics and Computer Science and I will start my senior year in August. I am almost certain that I want to continue my education but I really do not what I want to study in graduate school.

I know that Computer Science isn't the best if you to go for a PhD (unless you want research in Computer Science, which I don't think I enjoy, I enjoy more of the practical aspects). I definitely think I would mathematics graduate work a lot more, but it can definitely be very intimidating (people can be studying problems for years and not make much progress).

I know this is a pretty general question, and I am probably not providing enough information, but what other fields are worth considering to pursue in Graduate School (PhD), based on having a BSc in Computer Science and Mathematics, or is it too difficult to go out of your field for graduate school?",11,1,1960.8961172698077,GradSchool
Should I go to grad school?,"Currently a junior English major. My parents are pushing me to go to grad school, but I don't know if it's worth it, especially since I don't know what I want to do with my life. Any advice?",8,2,2014.7437330105488,GradSchool
What PhD admissions like for an undergrad?,"Hi! I'm currently a sophomore studying Political Science at Eastern Michigan University. As of now my GPA is around the 3.5-3.6 range but that will most likely go up as I kinda slacked my freshmen year. Anyway, what is the ""ballpark range"" that my GPA should be at to get into a somewhat decent PhD program?

BTW, I do realize that my uni isn't that prestigious so realistically i know I'm not going to get into a top tier program. And I do realize that I haven't taken the GRE yet, I just wanted your input! :) Thanks!",11,1,2101.9887330105485,GradSchool
Does where you go to school matter?,"Greetings,

I'm struggling places to apply. I will be seeking a Masters in Public Administration.

Does where you get the degree matter as much as the degree itself in your opinion?

Part of this is cost and family. I will likely seek schools with all-online programs due to where I love and needing to continue to work.",11,0,2125.353003843882,GradSchool
GRE Scores,"I took the GRE about a month ago and was wondering if someone could put my scores into perspective for me. I received a 149 on the verbal section, a 157 on the quantitative section, and a 4.5 on the writing section. I've looked up the percentile scores for each, but I was wondering if someone could tell me what my chances are what my chances are of getting into a science based grad school program, specifically geography.",3,1,2180.12453162166,GradSchool
Is there any way to appropriately inform a professor that your scholarship depends on your grade if you are borderline?,"In my class, I will have roughly an 87%, and it's a graduate level **special** **topics** course.  Normally these type of courses have a big curve, but this semester only has 3 students, and one of the foreign students has a 98%.  I understand the professor doesn't see any reason to curve when there are 3 students and an A and two B's or two A's and a B will be the legitimate outcome.  I have one last big assignment that I have put all my effort into to show significant improvement in the class, and it even says so in the syllabus that a student who shows significant improvement may have the final weighted higher.  So when I email him my final assignment, I'm trying to think of a non-desperate semi-professional way to inform him that it's a huge impact (potentially lose the scholarship if appeal is denied).

**Yes**, **it's** **my** **fault** I 'bombed' the midterm.  With the 35% midterm weight and one question was 52%, I butchered the question and lost 12% of my total grade in the class on just that. I have A's on the homework, and I expect good things on the final, but even if I make an A, I'm right below and I'd like him to know my scholarship depends on the grade.  Yes it's my fault I received a B in another course (I need a 3.5 and I have an A and B), and that other B was borderline C, there was no possibility of fixing the other. 

Any advice on what I can include in an email when I submit my final?  As stated above, I would like a non-desparate semi-profressional way to inform him I have a lot on the line.  In person, he can be very difficult to talk to, and we are both American.

",9,0,2347.5863371772157,GradSchool
The Dissertation Can No Longer Be Defended,,8,0,2434.172864954993,GradSchool
Tips before applying to grad schools?,"Do you guys have any tips before applying to grad schools?

Any life tips/things that you wouldn't want to miss out on (like deadline ofc...) will be appreciated.

Thank you!",3,2,8.841545510548684,GradSchool
Spreading myself to thin.,"Let me talk about a stressful day, I am spreading myself to thin. 

I want to go out but I also want to work on my research and side projects. I also have to grade for my students. The problem now is that I just got invited to my schools tailgate. I know that if I go to the tail gate I will be thinking about how I can get ahead in research , but if I stay home Ill be thinking about going to the tailgate. Looks like ill be going to the tailgate. I feel this will be best just might not get drunk.",3,2,17.23079319573387,GradSchool
Online PhD in Education / medical school goal,"Hello all,

University College London offers an entirely online PhD in education. It is actually ranked as the number one university in the world in education and UCL, in general, is in the top 20 of most university rankings. I am considering doing this PhD (I have a BSc, BEd, and MEd already). However, I am in a unique position and have these main points:

My end goal and lifelong dream is to go to medical school in Canada and get an MD. That is my goal and I will stop at nothing at making that dream a reality. Getting accepted to medicine in Canada is extremely difficult.  It is insanely competitive to get into medical school in Canada (have many friends who have applied 4+ times and still haven't got in). My ""backup plan"" was to work in education as a teacher. I finished my BEd (concurrently with a BSc in biochem) a couple of years ago and MEd last year and now I am working in education. 

I have already applied to med and not gotten in once. This PhD is 3 years full time (as are most UK PhD's) and I think that doing a PhD in the ""mean-time"" while reapplying to medicine instead of working as a teacher has benefits in the sense that my PhD will help me match to a competitive residency after medicine (also my goal), make my medical school application stand out further (I already have high academic stats, the competition here is just insane), personal fulfilment of doing a PhD, I would be an MD, PhD, etc.  I do NOT have any intentions of ever working in academia in education.

Also, my future goals as an MD is to do work with grade schools by designing/offering health courses for schools on the side or working as a teaching professor, etc (all this does not require a PhD in education, but would greatly help as well). On top of all this, I love learning and would be doing this PhD for personal fulfilment, interest, etc. 

Money is not an issue. I know I wrote a lot and I am not sure if anyone has ever run into a situation like that but if you can please comment on your thoughts about UCL/online PhD's/education PhD's/my future plans (MD) etc...thank you very much.",10,0,101.39278393647461,GradSchool
"A reflection on the ""S"" word","An excerpt for something I wrote for a publication at Penn when I went there, that I think some of you may be able to appreciate:

&#x200B;

“An Important Message to the Penn Community”

Unfortunately, we are all too familiar with seeing this subject line upon checking our emails. Every time, we suspect the worst, and too many times we are right. The email is usually suspiciously ambiguous, though that’s arguably out of respect for those closest to the tragedy. The rest of us are left to extrapolate, and sadly our conclusions are usually correct. Another victim of the “S” word. Another victim of the culture of high-competing students that although rampant here, is not unique to Penn, and wreaks havoc in schools all across the country. 

Every time one of these emails is sent out, it is without fail followed by students, professors and administrators asking, “What can we do?”, cries of “*Something* needs to be done!” and opinion pieces like this one in the DP. And yet, the emails keep coming. Though undoubtedly genuine, the message of solidarity from the administration and the index of resources for mourning students thats always tacked onto the end of these emails has now been rendered empty to me, and I’m sure to many other students as well. 

Awareness alone is simply not enough at this point; we on this campus are all painfully aware of this situation. But what more can we really do now? What can **you** do?

&#x200B;",4,3,193.00750615869686,GradSchool
Determined to get into academics!,"Since the end of the year 2017, I have applied to many universities to get admitted into Ph.D. program. I had applied to the following universities named: Uppsala University, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne, Virginia Tech, Louisiana State University, and RWTH Aachen. Unfortunately, my application for Ph.D. didn’t reached RWTH Aachen before the deadline. I had also applied to University of Kent. I was rejected from the University of Kent due to lack funding as they didn’t had adequate funding for the students coming from overseas. I had also applied to Technical University of Vienna, and was rejected due to lack of potential supervisor. I am really interested to pursue my Ph.D. the field of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) or its related field. Lack of specialization (or major) and work experience during my Master’s degree has always been an obstacle to get selected into the Ph.D. program. During the month of October 2018, I decided to opt for MS program. Getting a specialized degree in the field of HCI or its closely related field will surely strengthen my academic portfolio and prepare me for Ph.D. and my future academic endeavours. I had applied to University of Offenburg and University of Siegen and got rejected from both the universities. I wanted to apply for University of Vienna (MS in Media Informatics) and TU Wien (MS in Media and HCC) for summer semester 2019. Unfortunately, I couldn’t apply because Austrian universities required Apostilled documents. I was not able to Apostille my educational documents before the deadline which was on Feb 5, 2019. I have been trying tremendously hard to get into academics. I am totally determined to get into the field of research, so that I can research in the field of Human-Computer Interaction. I need a breakthrough so that I can prove my worth. I have a detailed plan and research proposal that I am very much interested to work on. It is my request to please guide me in the right direction so that I can get a breakthrough this year getting admitted into MS program and continue with my further education. Thank you.",3,1,233.2115339364746,GradSchool
"“The minute grades come into the picture, education goes out the window.”","-My Algorithms Professor

I live by this. I’m a shit test-taker, but my grades are not a reflection of my ability to understand the material.",2,0,245.0319390290672,GradSchool
Why am I even applying?,"I’m currently applying to grad schools and I’m honestly prepared to just not submit the two applications due tomorrow. I have no motivation and as a 21 year old with no job experience, I just don’t see how I’ll get into any of the PhD programs I’m attempting to apply to.",12,0,288.7987677327709,GradSchool
"Fellow grads, I'm competing in a crowdfunding competition to support my research. Please help me out if you're able to! experiment.com/savethefrogs",,0,0,418.0804112512894,GradSchool
Why are you all graduate students?,"I know there are elements of venting and comedy here, but all I see here are negative experiences, followed by relief that you completed it. What is it in graduate school that you enjoy, if anything? Why don't you leave?",16,2,442.0728302327709,GradSchool
This place is hell.,"I am trying to complete my MS degree, and complete a thesis. My graduation was delayed by my professor as he said ""I won't let you defend, and if you choose to defend I will instruct your committee to fail you. You will be an embarrassment."" Because of this, I was unable to graduate and my graduation was delayed for months. I lost a job opportunity, I lost time, and I lost my patience.

When I brought it up with the administrative staff and ombudsman, they gave me a similar response. ""It is as it is. You can either do as your professor instructs or you can drop out. Administratively, yes you have completed all of the requirements to graduate except to submit a thesis and defend. But if your advisor won't sign your thesis and pass you on your defense, you won't be given a degree. That's that.""

I hate this school, I hate grad school, I wish I never did this. I thought having a graduate education would be a dream to pursue what my interests and expand my knowledge. This place is a fucking nightmare, and my only experience was being a source of free labor and that's it.

I won't be pushing my defense any further, because it it gets pushed back further, it'll get pushed back further and further and further and further. My department thinks I'm worthless, my professor thinks I'm worthless, my committee straight up told me that they literally think my research has no merit or benefit. And yet, my professor told me that unless if I publish a paper, he won't let me graduate.

I am tired of PhD students constantly telling me ""you're just a Master's."" Or the professor's saying ""it's just a Master's project."" And despite their constant belittling, they expect me to publish a paper.

I have no plans on participating in a walk, because I know my degree is worthless and my research is a joke. I want to defend, submit my thesis, pack up my office, and leave. No words to anybody, just leave. Graduate school has been hell, I never want to come back to academia. I want to leave one way or another, either by graduating, dropping out, or dying.

---------

Copied from one of my comments",8,2,449.9053070846228,GradSchool
Affirmative Action,"Let's talk... 
How do you feel about losing affirmative action? How do you think it'll change graduate school? Do you recognize the benefits of affirmative action? Was it making a change? 

 Do you believe that white women benefited from affirmative action, but oppose it? Are white women considered minorities?

I'm curious to see what people think. ",19,3,462.6948904179561,GradSchool
Hair up or down for the interview? (female),The plan is either my hair straightened and behind my shoulders or in a ponytail. What looks better or does this not really matter? I put a clear retainer in my helix piercing and I will only wear one set of stud earrings so I'm not concerned with that. I either have frizzy hair down or I get parts that stick out by my ears if I do the ponytail. ,10,0,476.0728649549932,GradSchool
Liberal Indoctrination in University... Not so much...,,5,0,617.3601566216598,GradSchool
What's a scholarly paper that makes you think someone was crazy enough to fund that?,,4,1,674.8721820846228,GradSchool
Grad School Coat of Arms,,3,1,756.7893117142524,GradSchool
Can NSF funded fellowships drug test you?,I am wondering if a fellowship like this (NSF funded) can drug test you if they have suspicions you're doing drugs. I smoke weed recreationally and i'm in a situation where I'm being threatened with telling my fellowship director about the drug-use. I'm wondering what steps would the fellowship take if that does happen.,13,1,810.2100871772153,GradSchool
How your thesis committee views your defense,,1,1,889.3028302327709,GradSchool
How to be competitive for top 5 neuroscience programs?,"First post in this sub, just had a few questions for the biology/neuroscience PhDs out there. I have a 3.7 GPA from UCSD, 3.97 ""neuroscience"" GPA (11 courses ranging to cell neuro to cognitive neuro), 4 years of research experience, coauthored in Science paper, currently doing a senior thesis and planning to do a one year M.S. while I apply to PhD programs this upcoming cycle. I also have presented 3 posters and 4 short talks in undergrad research settings (not sure if these are important). 

 I'm looking to get into a top neuroscience PhD program like Harvard, Stanford, or Columbia and work in the area of translational neuroscience. I haven't taken the GRE yet. What score should I be shooting for? 

How important are professional network/connections for PhD admissions? Should I be cold emailing professors I'm interested in working with or asking my former and current PI to introduce me to professors? Do I mention names of professors I want to work with in my statement of purpose and how many? 

Thank you for reading! 
",6,0,892.6930848624006,GradSchool
I got accepted into grad school. What are my next steps?,I got accepted to a master's program for nutrition and I have no idea what my next steps should be. I'm currently finishing my undergrad degree. Classes for the master's program will start in the summer. I haven't decided on a thesis topic yet and I'm unsure how to narrow down my interests into something feasible. Does anyone have any advice for someone new to graduate school? What do you wish you would have known going in? Thanks in advance!,6,0,922.3870894920302,GradSchool
We need to talk about impostor syndrome,,6,9,1899.7516959735117,GradSchool
My next committee meeting is obviously being pushed early so I can be drubbed out or at least shamed by a group. Advice?,"Hi...

So, I'm pretty sure my PI is pushing for me to have a committee meeting as soon as possible to get rid of me.

I can't really blame him, I've been having a serious breakdown for basically the entirety of my academic career. 

But still, I'll be damned if I'm willing to walk into an obvious trap. I've done it before and it's dumb. I know the message, I suck and I should go off and work at Denny's or something and live alone so my terrible incomprehensible nature doesn't disgust the normal people...

Okay, so part of that comes from me dealing with lots of menopausal issues today (I'm trans and missed my hormones this morning), but I'm quite serious about the meeting clearly being a trap.

What should I do?

EDIT: Can I clarify very strongly that I don't think this is a discrimination thing, I just meant, literally that I was feeling crappy today because I was off my meds. That is all.",10,5,1497.087876529067,GradSchool
Really angered by incompetence,"Does anyone ever get this? Im in this psychological state where Im so sick and tired of my PI bringing incompetent people into our group. He's now admitted two students, one of whom knows nothing, doesn't care, and pretends he understands everything going on; the other student looks at everything as a utility ""what do I need to do to get that done...etc"" and is basically just a pair of hands looking for a degree! Its pathetic and beyond embarrassing. I open my mouth to help them and I get this attitude like ""yea whatever thanks bye"" and my blood boils. Wondering what I should do from my own mental health perspective?",12,5,1525.0645084735115,GradSchool
Age Discrimination,"Have any of you experienced discrimination because of your perceived age? I’m starting my junior year in undergrad next week and I plan on attending grad school afterwards. I’m a white male but I’m fairly short, about 5’6. I’m not very well built either so I’m a pretty small person. I have a pretty youthful appearance although I’m about to turn 21 and because of this, many people ask if I’m still in high school and are surprised to hear that I’m in my third year of college. I don’t get treated like a kid by my professors but I feel like that might be different when I get to grad school. I’m hoping to do a PhD in medical physics and I’m a little concerned with the thought that I might be looked over during the application process if I get interviews because of my youthful appearance. Growing facial hair isn’t a great option because mine is not very appealing and I do not require corrective lenses of any kind so glasses aren’t really an option either. I’m very motivated and have a love for the field I want to enter and I shadow a medical physicist in an oncology clinic and she feels that I would be a solid candidate for the program but I’m worried I might experience some disadvantages because of how young I seem. 

Are there any of you who are or were in a similar situation and if so, what kind of experience did you have when applying and doing your work. Also do you feel that your youthful appearance had an effect on the opportunities that you were afforded? 

I feel like I have what it takes to have good interviews and my academic history should be appealing on paper so am I perhaps worried about nothing? Will my overall qualifications exceed my youthful appearance perhaps?

Edit: All, thanks for your great replies. I was having some serious concerns and you all have helped me throw those out the window. Thanks so much for all the helpful advice.",24,3,58.19821217721535,GradSchool
"Podcast ep: grad students on decolonizing academia, esp anthropology. Only 23 minutes. Worth a listen.",,1,3,379.8236519920302,GradSchool
What I drew for my undergrad who is leaving for grad school! [OC],,1,2,474.33713578832646,GradSchool
Universities With No Application Fees in United States,,1,0,795.3069968994375,GradSchool
Applying for Graduate School Starter Pack,,0,0,1104.751996910961,GradSchool
Former Grad Student/New Faculty and an undergrad: how bad is this?,"I just graduated this summer with my PhD and I've started teaching at the same institution. My wife [25f] and I [28m] are in an open relationship, which we've enjoyed a number of times while we were in grad school. One time, we hooked up with an undergrad [20f] in my department who we were friends with. Now, it's likely that I'll be teaching this undergrad in the coming Spring semester. I've never been a TA, so there was no chance then that I'd have a position of authority over her. But now that I got this dream job, I'm potentially teaching upper division courses!

How big a problem do you think this will be if she ends up in my course? Do I need to disclose this to anyone? Get someone else to handle their grading?",5,3,1107.2473788554055,GradSchool
Is it ok to Crowd Funding an immediate grad school need?,"Please forgive my long windiness.  My wife has taught High School for 19 years.  She has a Master's degree in her field.  She has spent thousands of hours helping students with their SATs, College Essays, thousands of recommendations.  She is highly regarded within her school system and wants nothing more than to have a greater impact.  She has the opportunity to get an additional Masters Degree in Ed Leadership, which she must have in order to move into administration/curriculum development.   She sees this opportunity as one she can't pass up and will continue to teach full-time while completing it.
 

Unfortunately, this opportunity comes with the cost of tuition/fees which will push $2000 the first semester and is due immediately.  We just can't afford that right now (another long story), and there is not enough time to apply for financial aid/scholarships.  She can do that for later semesters.
 

Question:  What is your view on setting up a crowd funding campaign to raise the money from our community?  Her only stipulation would be that upon her completion (1.5 yrs) she will fund a scholarship in our school system for the same amount to give to a needy college bound student?  
 

Thank you in advance for your thoughtful feedback.
 

TLDR - Is it appropriate to crowd fund tuition now, and repay that by setting up a scholarship for the same amount for needy students?  Your feedback is needed.

",33,2,1382.906186725776,GradSchool
22 Pictures That Perfectly Sum Up The Life Of A Grad Student,,0,0,1449.9085941331832,GradSchool
What do I do... almost 2 months into MS bioinformatics program and...,"Well I am still not busy, and I find everything barely challenging... I've completed all my work a week ahead and understand the material so... What do I do now Bob? I want to be a strong bioinformatician in the future.",12,3,1462.4606311702205,GradSchool
How bad are Ph.D level statistic courses?,"I'm going to be applying to psychology ph.d programs soon and in all the places I look they all require two stat courses. 

I took two undergrad stat courses (general and one more for social sciences) and did fine but I'm really worried because I'm terrible at math. I know I can handle anything else a ph.d program throws at me but stats make me really uneasy.

So what are the graduate stat classes like?",27,4,1536.162726077628,GradSchool
Considering a second doctorate...,"I am in the process of finishing my first doctorate, an Ed.D. in curriculum and instruction from a R1 school. I will likely defend my dissertation in January or February. 

On a whim I decided to look into the Ph.D. in anthropology at Brown and after reviewing their curriculum, I am considering applying. In terms of research, I am interested in educational anthropology. 

What are the pros/cons of getting a second doctorate? Is this a really bad idea? ",10,1,746.3537793183684,GradSchool
NCSU vs Dartmouth,"I got admits from [NCSU IMSE](https://www.imsei.ncsu.edu/) and [Dartmouth MEM](http://engineering.dartmouth.edu/academics/graduate/mem/). 

Chances of funding with NCSU is slightly higher and I am coming from India so would be easy on pocket and environment to be acquitted. 
How much does the School reputation matters? 
Post masters I would be interested in pursuing the System Design from MIT or MBA from an elite institution after a two year work in consulting post-masters. My Masters would be a quick degree for short run in money to pay my post-masters MBA and part requirement the school would be seeking in a candidate. 

",8,0,952.5322399665166,GradSchool
Didn't believe I'd need a trigger warning...have you ever been caught off-guard in your research?,"Backstory, in brief: previous abusive relationship seven years ago, ex remains an active part of my life because of our son, PTSD symptoms, seeing counselor, etc. 

I was working on a lit review relating to feminist criminological theories. The article I came across explains specific ethical and methodological concerns in doing victim interviews as a special population. I figured, yes, this is good for my lit review. 
Wasn't prepared for the explicit narrative/transcript excerpts in the article. They're useful in the context of the article, but I wasn't prepared for them. Cue a brief moment of anxiety that sent me into my supervising prof's office to calm--he's uniquely familiar with PTSD/anxiety due to professional and academic history. 

Now, I feel weird about my research like I never was before. Social science (social work, crim, psych/counseling) is full of ""sensitive"" topics by their very nature.  I have rarely seen a potential ""trigger"" in my studies, and I'm generally good at strategies to manage. I believe that I can go through my career without this as a perpetual obstacle, I just hope I get desensitized quickly. 

I think I can attribute my reaction to the fact that I was completely not expecting it, but have any of you experienced some type of visceral reaction to the actual content of your research? Did you question your abilities as an objective or dispassionate academic?",6,3,1064.0563024665169,GradSchool
Prof said I failed but didn't give grade,"So I met with my professor to discuss about my progress in the course. I was told that I failed a 25% paper, but grade has not been assigned yet. (Anything less than 70% is a fail). I then asked if this means it is the 60s then, but prof has not decided yet.....Does this mean I'm not wanted in the course? I've asked the prof is I should continue or not, but prof wants me to decide. I can't even see the feedback for the paper, because papers won't be given back until next week in class. All the prof said is that I've missed discussing some content (which was like 2 out of 10 requirements).",11,0,1306.1223209850352,GradSchool
"2.4 GPA + 169V/170Q GRE, with a BA in Political Science applying for Computer Science MS, do I have a prayer?","I entered college completely unprepared, and bombed my first few semesters (D's and F's). I turned things around and was able to graduate, but my GPA never quite recovered and I ended up with a 2.42.

Add to that the fact that I majored in Political Science, and common sense would say that I don't have a shot at getting accepted into a Computer Science masters program.

However, there are a few possible mitigating circumstances:

* The last two years of college I got mostly A's and B's.

* I'm good at standardized tests. I killed the GRE, getting a 169 verbal, 170 quantitative, and 5.0 writing.

* In the last 6 months I took five prereq math/CS courses, 2 from Harvard Extension School and 3 at Rutgers University and got A's in all of them.

* I have an official diagnosis of ADD.

Will that be enough to make up for my terrible GPA and the fact that I majored in something irrelevant to computer science? Realistically, what kind of schools (ranking/reputation-wise) can I expect to get into?",9,0,1535.876047836887,GradSchool
"Dropped the program of my dreams, rejected application in new program. I will try even harder.","Well, I have dropped out from Masters Program in Optics and I got rejected from Biomedical Engineering(I was rooting for Imaging). I will try hard till I get into another program.

I will listen to Pokemon theme everyday!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuYeHPFR3f0

Hope is still alive!",2,0,1540.1199830220721,GradSchool
Good laptops for STEM grad school?,"September will be my first year in a STEM field grad program, and in perfect form, the laptop I used for undergrad has clunked out. 

What laptops do you guys and gals use to get you through the day? My department will supply a desktop for me to do heavier simulations, but I'd like a laptop that will last for at least half of my PhD before needing to be replaced. I'd like to be able to run light simulations, so I'm thinking either 8 or 16 GB of RAM, and a decent processor. Does anyone have any recommendations?",29,2,1584.5962908924425,GradSchool
3 Reasons Why I Left Grad School to Be an Entrepreneur,,26,1,1896.252575614665,GradSchool
"Incoming grad student, what do I call myself?","I know that I am not a PhD candidate until I've passed prelims, which won't be until my 2nd year. So in the interim, what do I call myself? Can I call myself a PhD student?

",26,0,1991.2684668183686,GradSchool
Having a *really* hard time deciding...,"Hi all, I am currently doing grad school visits for a masters in paleontology, and all of the programs I have seen so far seem really great. I am not sure how much my excitement for grad school is distorting my impressions (I know it is somewhat) and as a consequence I am having a really hard time telling whether I would actually be happy for 2+ years in any of these programs and differentiating between them. They are all programs of relatively small size yet have projects that I am really passionate about.

So my questions to you are:
What were the main factors influencing your decision to go to your current program, and did you regret your choice in a big way?
What questions do you wish you had thought to ask when you were a prospy?
What pointed (yet polite) questions might I ask current grad students to get a sense of any big negatives about the programs?

Thanks!",5,0,2060.0058047813313,GradSchool
Is grad school really not worth it if you are not in a top school?,"Like, if your dream is to do actual science and stuff.",22,2,2215.5715918183687,GradSchool
The poem I wrote the night I decided to quit with my masters.,"Hey guys - 

Long-time lurker and reader, but haven't shared my story.  I don't want scare anyone away or paint grad school in a bad way for everyone - just wanted to share my story alongside all the others that have helped me come to the hardest decision of my life.  A little background - I am in a top 10 STEM program, fully funded, and just ending year 2.  I have been consistently at the top of my class here since I began.  I came to grad school right out of undergrad (may have been a mistake, looking back), and was in the top of my class at a prestigious undergrad biochem program, and was naturally funneled into research by my advisors.  After 2 years and a newly onset case of near depression, I've made the decision to leave with my masters to pursue my own business ventures (or anything else besides academia, really).  Anyway, I only mention that I've done well so far to this point to illustrate my main point that even if you're very good at something, if it doesn't make you happy, then its not worth it.  I've tasted what its like to stand at the edge and look over, and thankfully was wise enough to turn back around and make changes in my life.  Hopefully in the near future, I can post an update to what I'm doing besides grad school, but for now, this is step one.  Anyway, here ya go.

___________________________________



‘A Change of Plans’

Theres a storm that rages in my mind

A wind thats whirling all the time

It shakes the shutters with my stutters,

Yet dormant, resides behind

The lies I paint my face to find
A peace, a place to buy some time
To calm the writhing tides insie
That erode the stairs as I try to climb.

But each step I take does nothing,

But exacerbate the suffering in which I swim,

The constant tug of war within – that crashes down

Like waves on a white flag bearing beach –

So I tread the water, but I fear I may sink,

Because every time I stop to think, to catch my

Breath, to simply blink the blank stare of defeat

Away,to try to find the strength to stay, my head

Sinks down below the crest, the water trickles down

Inside my chest, filling the emptiness inside with

A Sinister, sweet defeat.

A Fate I never thought I’d meet –

Let alone, with open arms, greet.
",1,10,1269.2753533924426,GradSchool
I’m not taking career advice from old white dudes anymore.,,8,11,1796.9772399665167,GradSchool
How frowned upon is it to hook up with undergrads?,So I live in a college town where most social circles exists within campus. How bad would it be for me to hook up with undergrads from queer friendly groups on campus given that they aren't my students? Still trying to figure out the social rules of being a grad student. Thanks in advance. ,11,8,1390.1285709850354,GradSchool
It adds an entire page onto the count. It's the little things.,,3,16,2295.1378765405907,GradSchool
I know revision is basically the most important step but it is also a terrible ordeal. Made this meme to try to capture the feeling.,,3,23,1471.9351682072572,GradSchool
Every time I'm bugging my advisor,,3,40,2183.7806658924424,GradSchool
I feel like my MS program is beyond a flaming pile of dog ***t!,"A little background I'm in a masters bioinformatics program that has a co-op and coursework. I'm also working part time as an intern for a lab (bioinformatics). My curriculum teaches perl as the programming language of choice, but everyone in the field has gone to python. When I asked one of my TAs about a question in perl, my TA responded... I don't use perl anymore and use python so I'll look in to (*never did*). That isn't too bad however, the Co-Op is just a farce because it's essentially another job board with no guaranteed employment...
So how screwed am I?

In terms of my job I'm close to publishing a first author paper and have been coding in python.",16,11,1365.279149688739,GradSchool
"No, You Might Not Have Imposter Syndrome","A lot of people in academia (especially in online communities like Reddit) know about and will sometimes even claim to have *imposter syndrome*. For anyone unfamiliar, [Wikipedia offers a pretty decent summary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome).

After quite a few years in higher study and 5+ cumulative years into my grad school(s) experience, when someone claims to have imposter syndrome, I initially have to take it with a very large grain of salt. I feel the need to do this because I believe many such people either misunderstand imposter syndrome or lack good self-awareness.

In my experience, people who claim to me to have imposter syndrome fall into one of the following categories (listed in approximate order of frequency):

1. By far the most typical category is people who are going through a general mental health challenge (or have a history of such challenges), such as a depression and/or anxiety disorder. This leads to typical symptoms of low motivation and mood, significant anxiety, etc., all of which impairs their everyday functioning. They may even experience an episode of impostorism, but that doesn't mean they have imposter syndrome.
2. Then we have people who really do have imposter syndrome. This is where they experience a *persistent* fear of being 'caught' or 'exposed' for being a fraud, despite external evidence to the contrary.Often these people have other mental health challenges too, since they might suffer from some kind of negative explanatory thinking style or 'inner critical voice' which generates a combination of mental health challenges.
3. Lastly, we have the actual 'imposter'. It's rare, but I've met people who are by all external metrics not performing and are ill-equipped for their current work in academia. I wouldn't call them an 'imposter' necessarily, but I'd say that they probably aren't in the right place professionally. It's my feeling that such people use the label of imposter syndrome as part of a self-handicapping strategy.

The main differentiation I make between categories 1 and 2 above is that category 2 have persistent episodes of impostorism whereas category 1 may experience one or more episodes of impostorism but also experience moments of competence. Obviously there will be some overlap, but I think it's important that we don't throw around mental health terminology lightly. For example, many people equate having a single episode of impostorism and having imposter syndrome (in some permanent sense) - to me, there is a big and important difference between these two things.

&#x200B;

*Disclaimer: This isn't directed at anyone on- or off-line, but just something I've been thinking about more recently.*",18,0,252.33240200355374,GradSchool
"MFW Undergrad Friends tell me ""It's Crunch Time""",,2,19,2366.981221447998,GradSchool
Am I the Only One Around Here....,"Who isn't having a torturous grad school experience? Who isn't pulling all nighters? Who isn't stuck in a lab/cubicle every minute of their lives? Who has supportive faculty members at their school who actually help with assignments and other needs?

I dunno. I feel like I see *so much* negativity on this subreddit \(which is totally, completely, 100&#37; understandable \- some of the stuff I read on here sounds horrible!\) but my experience has been pretty great up until now \(and I graduate less than 6 months\). I have never pulled an all nighter, I have never spent an entire weekend working on assignments, I've easily been able to have a social life while maintaining a 4.0.... I mean I've had my share of bad experiences \- rude professors, nice professors who lack teaching skills, being broke on the daily \(lol\), being a TA \(LOL\) \- but nothing so bad that I am like ""wow, I absolutely hate everything right now"". 

Maybe it's because I am only in a masters program. Or maybe I am just lucky. I dunno. But am I the only one around here? *Am I?* ",13,6,498.1953996887389,GradSchool
Grad School or Uber Driver?,"I'm at a cross-roads. What should I choose? 

**Uber Driver:** 
I love driving and the stress-free work environment of being your own boss and setting your own hours. 

I love the freedom it offers and the flexibility. 

**Grad School** 

I feel like grad school is the next thing to do having completed a B.Sc. --> M.Sc. in the biological sciences.

I have not found a job with my qualifications and parents/ friends & family pressuring me to climb the ladder of education. 

PhD program at respectable university, stipend is minimal and cost of living in the city is really HIGH. 

**Thoughts** 
I know this seems like a far-fetched comparison and I should know which one I would ultimately like but I'm very bad with decisions and ultimately end up regretting a decision months afterwards. 

Anyone make a similar decision: pursue higher education because it's what's expected of you or switch fields and work on something different while you explore other options. ",29,21,1212.141522373924,GradSchool
The Six Ways You’re Acting Like a Grad Student (And how that’s killing you on the job market),,9,19,2009.7562677442943,GradSchool
Me after I just sent emails to my professors asking for letters of recommendation.,,5,0,1859.0330385776278,GradSchool
"My debut novel came out this spring, and it's about a burned out History grad student who accidentally becomes the most famous person in the world not long after graduation. Thought r/GradSchool would appreciate!",,0,0,1950.07026079985,GradSchool
Pulled an all-nighter last night...,,1,0,2070.0890686702205,GradSchool
Down with pretentious snobs,"Presentation over, labmate makes a comment that it is not upto the group standards. Adds to my already existing mental health disorders and makes me feel suicidal over the weekend. All of us define our research group as much as the other members. Everyone is not naturally super intelligent but as long as they are trying it shouldn't matter. If you can't frame it nicely, don't say it.

[Added to reasons I'm not going to look for a career at high-tier universities].",15,9,238.7281658924426,GradSchool
Article for future grad students that are worried (like me) about choosing the right university.,,3,4,935.6967538554056,GradSchool
Just got into my top graduate school with funding! This is how I feel right now! ,,15,25,2742.016036262813,GradSchool
Obama says that his budget will triple the amount of NSF graduate fellowships,,6,9,2359.908871910961,GradSchool
"Our undergraduate student stated cleaning glassware was 'beneath her'.  Thankfully, we're good problem solvers.",,17,0,2540.2503302442947,GradSchool
Sure glad I went for that phd.,"I am defending my phd in 2 weeks.  I am qualified for zero jobs.  I am shit, I am garbage.  My publications are shit, my network is shit, my work is shit, I'm shit.  If I'm lucky I will be able to make a few bucks on the side doing a shitty job as an adjunct instructor to some kid who had a shitty start in life, and now has to struggle though my shit teaching as another obstacle.  All of my cohort and peers at other institutions have found work, ""AMERICA NEEDS MORE SCIENTISTS"", but here I am, dead last at everything because I'm a fucking failure, a piece of shit who managed to turn a phd into useless garbage by faking my way though the whole fucking thing.

",13,0,1351.017425151702,GradSchool
Samuel L Jackson on grad school (AdviceAnimals failed to appreciate it),,4,0,2582.277309410961,GradSchool
My professor just accused me of plagarism,"Long story short, he says my final exam consisted of words that were not my original ""words and thoughts"" which I don't get. It's not like this was an exam where I had to create some imaginary story this was questions that only had one answer and yes I googled some of the questions because we were so limited on time but I by no means copied and pasted anything. For the record, this specific class is an online one and there were no instructions about not being able to use google/our notes.

Can I fight this? Was it really wrong to use Google? What student doesn't? He originally gave me a 90 but then changed it to a 0. This changed my grade from a 97 to a 77 and I'm livid because I really don't think I did anything wrong.",12,2,520.1127607998501,GradSchool
Is there any definition to Hillary Clinton's plan for free college in 4 years? Is there any information on if it include grad programs or not?,,7,0,1181.9886635776277,GradSchool
10 steps to PhD failure. Some pitfalls to avoid....,,1,3,1446.29963579985,GradSchool
NSF GRF application question: would mentioning being gay help/hurt?,"So I am applying for the NSF GRF and I am trying to come up with talking points for my broader impacts, and I am wondering if talking about reaching out to the LGBT community to increase involvement in STEM fields would be a strong argument. What are your thoughts?",19,1,1468.2879575591091,GradSchool
My walk to class is horrible (parking rant),"Unfortunately my school is a professional school and caters mostly to medical, dental, and pharmacy students. Graduate students in STEM fields are definitely the ugly step-children of the school. 

&nbsp;

I get it, we don't pay hundreds of thousands of dollars for our degrees (usually), but I feel that the worst parking lot on campus was the last straw. It's not enough that grad students don't have access to the main computer labs, covered parking garages, or even *overnight access to the library* for Satan's sake. My walk to the building which houses my classes is **18** minutes walking very briskly. Major streets have to be crossed in a very bad area of town and even on nice days the walk nearly ruins my day. Recently we experienced very heavy rainfall and my day was completely shot. Even though I had an umbrella and walked as fast as I possibly could, the walk was around 20 minutes and I arrived soaking wet. 

&nbsp;

Does anyone else have parking frustrations? Troubles with being treated like the red-headed step child of your college? 

&nbsp;

Edit: Formatting",13,0,1523.7823788554056,GradSchool
“Most people I know in academia want to get out. Which is a pretty new situation. I’ve never encountered that before”,,6,4,1682.8911520035535,GradSchool
"Finishing up my B.A. during a winter session, how does this effect applying to grad schools?","Specifically, 

I want to start grad school during the spring semester. However, I've decided it is in my best interest to retake a class I did absolutely miserable in which is negatively effecting my overall GPA and preventing me from getting merit based scholarships, so it is very important I retake said class.

This class goes from January 6th-January 24th. I am still unsure at this point in time whether or not I am still able to graduate with the fall class. I assume **I am not** able to graduate during the winter session. I would either graduate February 1st (Fall) or after the spring session.


There are several deadlines coming up for gradschools which have their programs begin during the Spring semester. 

How would this work applying to these schools? Is it a school/school basis? If my school says that by taking the winter session class I will have to graduate in the spring, does that mean I cannot start grad school until the following semester (in the fall)?

I feel like the answer could be common sense, but I am starting to freak out a little bit and I am looking for confirmation one way or another. I've emailed the school, but likely will not get a response until Monday, maybe Tuesday. ",5,3,2144.9236057072576,GradSchool
To (All) the Colleges That Rejected Me,,5,0,2386.9856195961465,GradSchool
Hi r/gradschool - I'm studying you. There's a survey and explanation inside.,"I'd love it if you could help me. This is a pilot study and therefore won't be online for long - I have used a throwaway so that you can't see my previous posts that may influence your answers. 

I am studying Privacy and the use of Facebook, this is a short survey of 18 multiple choice questions - all is explained in the link.

Feel free to leave comment and critique in this thread, but please try to not give any spoilers or identify yourselves. 

Here is the link:

https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1TdyarGLcruPUmkby0kUx04tSm3Yt0_3fqLXdxtZei1E/viewform

Many thanks r/gradschool",7,3,2416.3759552442943,GradSchool
Felt like very stupid in front of my advisor,Missed some very obvious points in our meeting. Can't stop wondering how he thought about me…,4,0,8.038200614664841,GradSchool
Advice Needed,"So my SO and I are in our undergraduate programs and I am looking into my Master’s program. We are also trying to figure out when the best time frame is to get married. We both are on track to graduate in the fall, therefore I would be starting my Master’s program in the following fall. I would love to get married in the fall (sorry for saying fall so much lol) after we graduate, but with that being my first semester in grad school, I’m not sure if this is the best idea. 
I apologize if this is completely dumb, but I don’t know how grad school works in terms of missing class. Would it even be possible to miss like two weeks of class? Would that be a good enough excuse for professors? Should I put off grad school for another whole year because it cannot start in the spring? Or should I just get married in the spring before grad school starts? I can’t figure out whether or not it would even be possible to get married during grad school, and if not which is worth putting off for the other.",7,0,84.81583950355373,GradSchool
How much of loans did you need to complete your Master's what's the best offer to take with regard to loans?,"can you give a guy whose curious about Grad School and loans some quick info? I haven't taken any loans for undergraduate. What might you recommend I take or remember when accepting loan offers?

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

I'm completing my bachelor's in History this Fall. I'm seeking a university for Grad School to specialize in Contemporary Africa. I was hoping for something on the East Coast.",13,0,101.07330478133152,GradSchool
"Have an offer for an MPA at USC and a Masters in IR at NYU. For a career in politics in government, split 50/50, anyone here done one? What’re you doing career wise now?"," Right, so I was just accepted to Price at USC for my MPA which I’m still on cloud 9 about, doesn’t seem real. Been my dream school since I was 10. I was also accepted for a masters of IR at NYU. Toured the NYU campus and really loved the vibe of the area and the proximity to the UN and other governmental organisations was a bonus. Love the CV’s of the lecturers in the IR programme, some really heavy hitters.

Downside is of course the cost as NYU is notoriously bad at giving out financial aid, not doing loans so it’s all out of pocket, and then housing/weather. 

SC’s school of public policy is one of the best in the country and has a ton of well accomplished lecturers from General David Petraeus to many others. Pro’s there are the programme ranking, more financial aid and according to what I’ve seen, an MPA/MPP opens a few more doors career wise than an IR post grad.

\*\*It depends on what you want to do in life\*\*

Longterm, I want to go into politics with an international emphasis. UN, NATO, etc. I would also like to lecture at the university level which from what I’ve seen is possible both with the MPA as it’s basically the terminal degree for Public administration(DPA’s are usually online and from what the people on r/gradadmissions told me, not really worth it) and also with a Ph.D in IR. Anyone here done either of these courses? What were your thoughts and where are you now?",14,0,147.85802700355373,GradSchool
Help a broke grad student for the RRL section.,"Hello. Does anyone here have a copy of Claire Johnston's The Subject of Feminist Film Theory/Practice?

I badly need it for my dissertation.",4,0,153.31293441096113,GradSchool
I’m supposed to start grad school in less than a month and I don’t know if I’m making the right decision.,"TL;DR: I don’t know if I should actually start this program. My mom and I’s already sinking relationship would get worse and I feel like I should at least try it out before dropping. I don’t think I’m ready to grow up and do this. But this is a field that I’m very passionate about after a very long internship in undergrad. Any advice?

Forgive me, this is long. 

I (almost 23, F) start my 2 yr masters program in less than a month and I don’t even know if I really want to go. If I am gonna go to grad school for anything, THIS would be the field I’d choose. But now I’m not sure if I want to go.

I was originally put on an alternate list for one of the schools I applied to and was doubtful a seat would actually become available. So, I cried for a few days and then started making other plans for the next year or so. I was excited to start these plans and thought about reapplying for school again in the fall. Last month I got an email about a seat becoming available.

I read the email as I was leaving work and I honestly was just shocked. I had no idea what to think or how to process it and I wasn’t excited at all. I literally drove in silence on my way home when normally I have the windows down and music blaring.

I live at home and I didn’t tell anyone for almost a day. When I did tell my brother, he told me that if I were going to go to back to school, now is the time to do it. The school is fairly close to home, I’m accepted now, and I’m still pretty fresh out of my BS program. He is a big believer in not giving your money to colleges and you can make a career out of networking and blah blah blah. Except you can’t really make a career in the medical field without a degree.

I’m also currently going through a rough patch with my mom. When I told my parents the news another day later and explained my hesitation with it, she said “You are going to school!!” about 5 times to me. Because we are on bad terms, I can’t really talk to her about any of this nor do I feel any support from her when I tell her the LIST of things I’ve accomplished EACH DAY in preparing for school.

I already signed a lease with 2 roommates, bought my books, paid for my background check/drug test, and am almost to the stage of actually signing up for my classes.

I was really excited to start working on my new plans that included traveling, but that won’t help me move away from home (which I desperately need to because of my mom and I’s sinking relationship). With school, I’ll at least be out of the house and away from this shitty town.

I feel like I’m not ready to grow up and tackle this program when the only thing on my mind is, “How much can I work to pay my bills and save money for traveling/festivals to do in between semesters AND keep my grades up??” Literally everyone I know in the program (a couple of professors included) advise against working at all during this time.

I feel like I should at least give it a shot and if I really hate it, then I can drop out. “It’s only 2 years” I keep reminding myself. But I’m really worried I am about to spend a lot of money and put myself in more debt just to end up hating it. I also know that dropping out before even starting will make mine and my mom’s relationship even worse. I know I should do things for me, but like.... who doesn’t want to make their mom happy...? I’m torn.

Can anyone offer support in either direction? Thank you",5,0,165.777911262813,GradSchool
Tattoos in grad school?,"Hi everyone, I'm starting grad school in the fall and am considering getting a small tattoo on my wrist. I'm wondering what the social stigma is around small yet visible tattoos in grad schools (I have 2 tattoos in more ""hidden"" areas). I'm sure this probably varies by program so if it's any help I'll be a biology PhD student.

&#x200B;

Thanks!",16,0,175.34083950355372,GradSchool
Georgetown Masters in Finance acceptance,I'm currently a finance undergrad student at a state school. I was considering Georgetown for their MSF online program. I have a 3.88 thus far and dont see it going down any by the time I graduate. I haven't taken the GMAT yet but I typically score pretty well on standardized tests. I was just wondering if anyone has any insight on what it would take to get into Georgetowns Finance grad program?,0,0,260.8330964479982,GradSchool
Looking for Grad School,"Hi all,

I am looking for a little advice. I am going to be graduating from Boston College this spring majoring in finance and political science with a 3.33 gpa. I would love to attend a graduate program allowing me to continue researching which I have done with a fellowship at BC and study politics further, but I do not have the money to do it unless I get a scholarship and stipend. I am curious if any of you were able to achieve this with similar qualifications, and if so where you went.",1,0,289.0139645035537,GradSchool
BS or MS (Engineering,"Hello,

Currently an Art History major, I've gotten tired of the arts and humanities. My natural skills in science are itching with ideas (high school life sciences /physics were the hobbies)

But here's the question:

Should I do a B.S in engineering or just take prereqs and apply to a taught M.S Engineering program?

Thanks ahead of time ",5,0,294.21484413318336,GradSchool
Padfolio or Faux/Midori?,"I’m starting school in the fall and want to spruce up my note-taking game with a nice-looking cover. I’m trying to decide between a legal pad or notebook system before making a purchase. I used notebooks in college and like being able to reference old notes in class, but I can see the utility of loose-leaf paper for regrouping notes once I transition from coursework to exams and research. Plus, less bulk.

I’m in the social sciences and will be doing some quantitative coursework. Mostly seminars, no lab work.

I’m sure this is a super personal choice, but I’m curious what has worked for you and why!


",8,0,304.23557329985005,GradSchool
Where should I go for a Masters in Cellular Engineering?,"I know MIT and Princeton have amazing programs, sadly MIT doesn't allow anyone to apply to the graduate program if they didn't attend undergrad there and you can't attend their undergrad program if you already have a bachelors degree. ",5,0,304.46176542947967,GradSchool
Issues Graduate Students Are Facing,,2,0,313.5999598739241,GradSchool
Hello guys! I need help to proofread my personal statement before I turn it in!!,"Any suggestions and even criticism are open!! Feel free to send me DM so, I can give you the link to my personal statement.",3,0,314.71351311466486,GradSchool
I need somebody to proofread my personal statement before I turn it in!!!,I'm open to suggestions and even constructive criticism. PLEASE send me a DM so I can give you the link to my personal statement :),0,0,314.722286262813,GradSchool
What's grad school life at Brown like?,"I have an offer from Brown that I'm likely going to accept for their master's program in CS. 

What is graduate student life like at Brown? Is there much social interaction? What are the classes like? How accessible are professors? Is there anything I should especially know about before I attend? ",1,0,316.94705478133153,GradSchool
How did you decide what you wanted to study in Grad School?,I would like to get my Masters to improve my job prospects but I’m not sure what I want to study. I graduated with a BA in History if it helps.,4,0,331.4149598739241,GradSchool
Looking for someone's academic work to edit,"Hi guys!

In short, I'm a copy editor looking for someone's(1) academic work to edit so that I may use it as a work sample in the future. Because of this, I'm willing to provide my services for free, but the text itself needs to fulfill several criteria for me to be able to best use it as a sample, which was why I chose to make the request on a public platform.

* I'd be using the text to demonstrate my ability as a Chemistry Specialist Editor, so it'd need to be related to Chemistry
* the text cannot be too long or too short (4-10k words is my rough estimate)
* the above-mentioned length requirement must be for the entire text (don't splice pls)
* the text need to be editable through Word
* the text needs to be finished but not...""finished"" (I can't rly use incomplete work, and editors don't ""add on"" to other ppl's work; on the flip side, if the text is already well-written and there's no much or anything to be fixed...then I can't rly use that either)
* if the text need to be formatted in accordance to publication guidelines that is a plus

**What does a copy editor do?** In addition to proofreading (checking the text for spelling, grammatical, typographical errors and so forth), a copy editor checks for proper flow, diction, consistency and readability. Editors can also check texts for factual accuracy and ensure proper formatting as per a given set of guidelines (e.g., references) and provides feedback to the author.

**What I don't do** summarize or significantly contribute to text (For example, editing a text upward or downwards to fulfill a length requirement. For something like a person's abstract being above a 250-word req., my general course of action would be to see if it could be edited down by normal means and to leave a query for the author otherwise.)

If you're still interested after that wall of text, please DM for inquiries. Thanks!",3,0,353.0486635776278,GradSchool
"what does ""research"" mean in graduate level music courses?","title says it all. do you study music by dead germans 24/7, just do creative projects all day long, study some weird tuning system used by African tribes, or some combination of all of the above?",0,0,357.16720524429445,GradSchool
Turning thesis into journal article—asking re: advisor's directions.,"Following completion of my master's thesis, my advisor has expressed the desire to continue working with me in turning my work into a published journal article. His most recent direction to me was as follows: 

> I will be out-of-loop for two weeks, so in the interim why don’t you start to compile the research objectives a bit on the methodology and key findings.

Since my master's program was my first foray into academia (as in, I had no idea what a 'lit review' or anything was until I started this), I'm not entirely sure what he means.

I asked him, of course, for clarification—I'm just curious as to what you all would do if you were presented with this. Just feeling out all options!!

",0,0,362.2560131146648,GradSchool
Google Scholar or Research Gate,"What are the pros and cons of each? Should I set up my profile in both or just one of them? 

Any advice are welcome. ",1,0,389.86992515170186,GradSchool
Undergrad here! How do I politely tell a professor that I am not interested in volunteering in his lab?,"I have a decent amount of research experience at my previous university, but I just transferred to a new school and am TAing this semester while looking for a new lab. I emailed a professor over the summer about his research; he hired me as his TA because I have been a research assistant in this subfield of CS. 

However, I have since decided that I don't want to join his lab (the offer was for university credit, not money - but that's not the only reason I am saying no. In all likelihood, sometime in the next four months I will take an unpaid research spot for a different CS professor). 

It's important I don't burn a bridge here because I will be continuing to work for him/he might write a LoR for me when I apply to grad schools! ",4,0,406.76639505910924,GradSchool
"I really, really want to quit.","I basically entered a master's program because I was living with my mother after college in my small hometown and feeling like shit about it-it was a poor choice, but it gave me something to do. I moved ~6 hours away to attend this program, and have borrowed $20k so far. I didn't live at home during college and wasn't homesick at all-but I guess in my gap year I kinda fell in love with the place I grew up and the people there, even though it's a kinda depressed/poor area with little opportunity.

I have one semester left. I do not want to do it. I haven't made good connections or anything besides done the bare minimum (GPA is like 3.9 though, so classes are ok) because I've been cripplingly depressed. I think I went to class less than 10x last semester. I don't care about the material and I'm not interested in any of the jobs I could get with this degree. I will fully own that it was a huge, expensive mistake and I would of been better off staying in retail for another year.

I don't know what to do. I don't have any employment prospects or goals or plans, I'm homesick, I'm broke, and I'm just sad. Most days I make excuses to avoid responsibilities and stay in bed until 5 or 6pm. I know quitting is a poor choice, but I'm not sure if I can stick it out until December. Time off isn't an option as I have a pretty large scholarship that only applies to consecutive semesters.

What on earth do I do?",20,0,440.40943904059077,GradSchool
What do academics do during the summer?,"Not PhD or masters students, but actual tenured professors or post-docs.",9,0,449.08085107762776,GradSchool
Noice cancelling headphones,"So I've seen many people here mention how useful they've found noise cancelling headphones. I'm inclined to agree after trying to work without any type of office (not at home or campus). I've been looking for some with active noise cancelling and Bluetooth but there's so many brands and prices! So, if you've got'em, what brand/model are they and what's the good and the bad?",4,0,459.22236728133146,GradSchool
How much admissions on websites don't know average stats,"On law school sites, they show the average GPA/LSAT etc.

But why on Master's degree websites they don't even know the average GRE and acceptance rates?",4,0,463.7218927442945,GradSchool
Probably the weirdest interview ever...,,0,0,487.6154922813315,GradSchool
Evading scientific stalemates,,0,0,507.27096681836855,GradSchool
What is it like in academia for Japanese?,"I'm currently an undergraduate student for Japanese literature at a university in the States, and I'm considering entering grad school to further my studies in Japanese. I'm currently a 3rd year student, but next academic year, the final year, I will spend the entirety of it in Japan in a study abroad program for ten months. 

So the question is, is it worth it to go to grad school for Japanese, and what is it like? I know academia isn't the only option after grad school, but what is it like, and how did you arrive to this point in life or decide to do it? At the moment, I'm leaning away from academia because I don't think I would do very well as an instructor, nor do I know what I would do for research. On top of that, I've heard it's quite competitive for tenures. As for my friend who plans on teaching Japanese, it makes perfect sense for him to do grad school.

At the moment, I'm around JLPT N2, but after graduation, I plan on applying for JET so during that time I plan to at least hit N1. After JET, I'm considering entering grad school. Should I decide to not do grad school, I'll most likely be doing some professional translation work. Would anything beyond a master's be beneficial for me even if I don't enter academia?",9,0,518.942124225776,GradSchool
Is a Ph.D. in Neuropsychology worth it?,"I'm planning on pursuing a career in Pediatric Neuropsychology and I've read a lot about people regretting a Ph.D. in Clinical psychology and how the money and time you spend is not worth the amount you get paid. But I'm confused if this still stands when going into clinical neuropsychology since the salaries there are about an average of 80-100k vs clinical psychology's average of 60-80k Most of the things I've read have been negative and so it's been pushing me away from a career in psychology. Many also said that it takes as much school as a medical school to get through your bachelors, Ph.D., and internship. With that I started to wonder if it would be better to become a psychiatrist since the compensation is much better on that end. I'm not only interested in money but I do hope that by the time I reached thirty I'd be living comfortably. Is this too idealistic when going into a career in neuropsychology psychology? 

So I guess I'm asking a few things:

Is it too idealistic to expect to live comfortably by the age of 30 when becoming a Neuropsychologist

Is the work put into a Ph.D. > then the compensation (in both satisfaction and salary) for Neuropsych?

And are the job prospects too unreliable to go through with it?
",2,0,525.9858279294797,GradSchool
All the transferable skills you gain during your PhD,,2,0,547.2536288554056,GradSchool
How competitive is the Ontario Grant Scholarship (OGS)?,"I applied to 2 scholarships: OGS and an internal one. I was notified a few days ago that I had received an internal scholarship by the school that I am planning to attend. However, I was just notified that I did not received OGS. I had a few student publications and one paper that was submitted to an academic journal, as well as a symposium presentation. My average was an 82 and 84 in my last two years, respectively (so an A- in each). I am wondering about people's experiences with OGS. Is it extremely competitive? I heard it's kind of a lottery system? Thanks! Also posting this in r/gradadmissions",0,0,553.2580154294797,GradSchool
Can you take this survey for my graduate thesis about the US Lunar Landing?,,0,0,555.0237098739241,GradSchool
Where are all the predoctoral diabetes fellowships?,"Not sure if this is the right place to post this. Looking for predoctoral fellowships for basic/translational science related to diabetese. Plenty of good spots out there for cardiovascular (AHA), and cancer. It feels like there should be a lot of options related to diabetes and obesity, but I just can't find them (there's plenty of postdoc, just no predoc). Anyone have any leads for me?",3,0,560.2053302442945,GradSchool
"Time to choose a school: GWU, NTU, TAU, or CUHK?","Writing this post actually gave me some clarity. I think I can summarize my main question as this: 

- Which would you choose, GWU or NTU?

______________

**BASIC BACKGROUND** 

- undergrad in International Relations, minors in Spanish and Japanese, studied abroad in Tokyo for 1 year
- lived in China for 2 years, passed Chinese language proficiency test (HSK level 5)
- China is my new focus 

______________

**SCHOOLS** 

I applied to, as well accepted by, 6 schools for my masters. 

- 4 were for International Security / Security Policy Studies
- 2 were for International Trade / Relations. 


Note: tuition does not include housing 

______________

**SCHOOL DETAILS**

1. GWU (George Washington University, DC)

         - Security 
         - $10,000 scholarship
         - tuition: $80,000 total 
         - length: 2 years 
         - pro: no fluff in curriculum, length 
         - con: tuition 
2. CUHK (Chinese University of Hong Kong)

         - trade / relations
         - full scholarship
         - length: 1 year
         - pro: good classes on China, free
         - con: other classes so-so, not well-known outside of China
3. TAU (Tel Aviv University, Israel)

         - security
         - tuition: $20,000 total
         - length: 1 year
         - pro: strong curriculum 
         - con: heavy focus on Israel and Middle East
4. NTU (Nanyang Technological University, Singapore)

         - security
         - tuition: $24,000
         - length: 1 year
         - pro: no fluff in curriculum, focus on Asia/China
         - con: 1 year, maybe not as good at NUS?
5. UvA (University of Amsterdam, Netherlands) 

         - trade / relations
6. RuG (University of Groningen, Netherlands)

         - security

______________

**SELECTION NOTE** 

I'm no longer considering options 5 and 6. 

______________

**PREFERENCES**

**not considering cost:**

1. GWU
2. NTU
3. TAU
4. CUHK 

**considering cost:**

1. GWU / NTU / CUHK
2. TAU 

______________

**FINANCE NOTE**

Seeing as money is in fact a consideration, I'm having trouble deciding between GWU, NTU, and CUHK. 

______________

**CONCERNS: GWU & NTU**

GWU and NTU offer similar classes. In fact, I would spend one semester at GWU studying abroad at NTU. However, NTU is only 1 year, while GWU is 2. I like the idea of a 2-year program because it gives a chance to take an internship (first summer) before diving back into classes and applying what you learned. 

Another concern with NTU is that it might not be well-known outside of Singapore (or Asia). Likewise, it might be looked down on, because it's not as good as NUS (?). 

______________

**CONCERNS: CUHK**

CUHK...well, it's still hanging on because it's free. The curriculum is just so-so. And maybe no one knows it, which isn't the end of the world, but maybe also a small hindrance. 

______________

.

.

Thoughts???

.

.
",7,0,571.3065455220723,GradSchool
When should I take the GRE?,"Hello,

I’m currently a freshman that wants to graduate in three years. When is the most appropriate time to take the GRE? I’m thinking of taking it during the winter of next year. 

Also, are there any consequences of applying to grad school as a student who graduate in three years?

Thanks",7,0,581.4494274665167,GradSchool
Russian and East European Studies @ Indiana University-Bloomington,Does anyone know the reputation of this program?,2,0,601.937610336887,GradSchool
Information Technology PHD program without math?,"Hey guys,

A bit about me: I'm a Network Engineer, been working in the industry for a few years, and I'm currently finishing up my M.S. also in Network Engineering. I've started toying around with the idea of pursuing a PHD, but most if not all PHD programs that I've come across have a heavy math requirement (years of calculus, linear algebra, etc.). 

Working in the industry has taught me one thing: you don't need half of the math you were taught in college. My B.S. was finished years back and I've forgotten all of the calc and stats i took.

So, essentially, I was hoping somebody has come across a degree program that focuses on application rather than theory? Otherwise, I may have to grit my teeth, bend over and take an extra few math classes.

My interest in this, for the record, is to finish the PHD and start teaching at the University level. Minus the math, I really did quite like College life. 



",3,0,611.6255270035538,GradSchool
Favorite terms/vocab for writing,What are some of your preferred terms for transitional phrases? I'm looking for non-standard terms. ,1,0,612.3102839479982,GradSchool
First year graduate student worried about class size.,"This is my second semester as an English graduate student.
During the Fall, all 3 of my courses had 18 people (the max) in them.
This semester, I have another 18 and a class that has 5 students enrolled in it (even though it has 18 seats).

How different and negative/positive is this experience going to be? I guess I am worried because I do not know the teacher, and it is a research course.",5,0,633.9516496887389,GradSchool
McGill University earth science program,"I am considering applying to the PhD earth science program at McGill University in Montreal. I have contacted a potential advisor there and have a Skype chat arranged for this week. Does anyone know how competitive admission is for this program? I know there are a lot of variables at play, such as advisor funding, TA'ships, etc...

Honestly, my concern is that I may be punching above my weight as far as the tier of schools I should be looking at. I am currently a Masters student at a good, not great, geology program in the U.S. My thesis work is adequate but not exceptional. I have a strong undergrad and grad GPA and decent (161, 158) GRE scores. 

The problem is that I have a terrible early academic history littered with bad grades and withdrawals. I've been to a lot of schools and spent the first few years of my college education having no motivation and no idea how to be a decent college student. It wasn't until I took 5 years away from school working in retail that I become properly focused. Somehow, this terrible background did not prevent me from getting into a MS program, but I can't fathom getting into a top program with this background. 

TLDR -- how good of a geology program is McGill and does someone with an eye poppingly bad few years of early education have any chance at admission?",0,0,634.3284089479982,GradSchool
Grad School Abroad?,"As an undergrad in the US I've majored in marketing and minored in management. I'm curious about those who have gone abroad to get an MBA or a masters... was it worth it? What has been your experience when it comes to getting jobs--have companies been interested that you got your masters abroad, or did it not seem to matter?

Also, are there any countries that offer cheaper grad school than the US that would be worth attending?",5,0,634.9911635776278,GradSchool
"Need help with judging my profile, chances for MS",,1,0,638.4086751517019,GradSchool
Can anyone (particularly students with just an undergraduate or Master's degree) write a review article for a medical journal without a supervisor or PI?,,5,0,645.8495084850352,GradSchool
I had a job and I threw it away for grad school....,,3,0,658.3392885776278,GradSchool
Suggestions for creative grad programs that offer scholarships or are relatively cheap?,"Hi reddit!

I'm looking to apply to grad programs that are in the ""creative"" field. I put this in quotes because the term can be used pretty loosely. I'll be completely honest and I don't know what I want to do but that's because there's too much I want to do. I love designing, programming, building, and so much more! But I don't know what I want to focus on as a career. All I know is that from my past experiences, I don't want to work in a corporate environment. So I am looking to explore. A little background about myself:

I received a BS in business and it was during that time I realized a corporate job wasn't for me. I tried a few things and I finally felt happy for the first time working on a project with a small creative technology studio. I wanted to build upon this but I know I need to network and gain some more skills.

This is where I felt grad school would be excellent but I want to learn from my past mistakes. I went to a private school for my bachelors and am deep in debt. I don't want to further increase this burden so I am looking for programs that offer scholarships or are relatively cheap.

Ideally, I would be looking at schools in the NYC area because I live near there and can save some more on expense.

I know this is a broad question but thought it wouldn't hurt to try. Let me know if I can clarify anything! Thanks so much for reading!",6,0,703.2605617257759,GradSchool
Question about GRE Score for Online Grad School admissions?,"Am trying to get into an online communications program at the University of Florida. They said that applicants MUST have 149 Quant and 156 Verbal and I scored JUST UNDER (I'm actually pretty proud of my score, though, because I thought I was going to absolutely bomb Quant (I failed math five times in college). So I spent all of my time studying it and that's exactly why this happened). I am nervous now that I won't get in! Any thoughts? App due tomorrow.",5,0,731.0155385776277,GradSchool
Suggested a topic. PI likes it. Now I regret,"My PI virtually threw me a massive numerical model and told me to do sth about it. I spent the whole summer working on the very specifics and without spending too much time on the Big Picture. The only thing I know is that my Master thesis will be based on this model. 

Now comes scholarship app and proposal time. I worked out a very promising topic which my PI is very enthusiastic. After further research, I hit a major road block or shall I say several road blocks that can take massive amount of time (too much for a research master). 

I now regret suggesting sth too ambitious. I should have followed up and just expanded based on an existing project.

The topic itself is fairly new and aligns with my interest. It's just the stress that is sometimes too much. I am afraid I have passed a point of no return since I am about to present my proposal to my committee and research sponsors. ",0,0,733.9558626517018,GradSchool
Best Chicago area grad school for MS in Computer Science?,"My company is offering to pay for my MS in CS, if I find a school with a good CS department with reasonable tuition. I will also work part-time at the company while in school.
What are your recommendations for schools in the Chicago area that fit that description? So far, DePaul seems to be the only school that has tuition that is anywhere near normal.

Additionally, what are typical course loads in a graduate program? I think I'm hearing 9 credits. How practical is that when working part-time?


Here is a breakdown of schools + tuition (based on a 9 Cr. load * 3 semesters or 4 quarters per year. Ignore Bradley, it's way too far for me.)

Name -> Cost per Segment -> Cost per Year.

IIT $1470/Cr. $52,920.00

DePaul $830/Cr. $29,880.00

U of Chicago $5802/course $69,624.00

Bradley Uni $870/Cr. $31,320.00

UIC $1,401.00 $17,256.00

Loyola $1,033.00 $37,188.00

The only other schools I can think of in the area are Northeastern University, Roosevelt, and Northern Illinois University but I haven't heard the best things about them. Have any info to contradict that?",8,0,741.73244829985,GradSchool
My program director says to disclose if there's something that may impact our performance... but should I?,"My program director says we should inform her if we are dealing with something that may impact our performance in my counseling psychology program. Often, I find my performance is impacted by my combination of Social Anxiety Disorder, Unspecified Eating Disorder, and type 1 diabetes. It pains me to think that she and other faculty may think that some of my performance issues are laziness. I have a 3.9 GPA, and I am in my 3rd semester, but my progress with counseling skills and professionalism (mostly showing up when I am supposed to) are big concerned for me. Should I tell my director I feel these things are impacting my ability to perform my best?",3,0,752.2030270035538,GradSchool
Liberty University MPP,I am looking at Liberty University online for doing an MPP. I really can't find any reviews online for their program and would love to hear from anyone who has look at Liberty for this program. Thank you in advance!,22,0,756.1477376517018,GradSchool
Offered Guaranteed Admission - Should I take it?,"So I'm going into my last year of undergrad (STEM field) and have done research this past summer in the exact sub-field I want to study in grad school.

Apparently I did a good job because the PI wants me to stay as a grad student (this is at a university that I don't attend as an undergraduate but was working at for the summer). He said that if he and I make an agreement, he can reserve one of the spots for new students for me (paraphrasing - I don't remember his exact wording). This means I have to agree in advance to attend the school and join his group and not apply elsewhere.

I'm the top student grades-wise in my department and I've been literally told by professors that I'm the best undergraduate they've ever worked with (their words, not mine - I'm not actually cocky). I have done research in my discipline since freshman year and I've been told by many people in my field that I'll have no issue getting into whatever grad school I want to.

I liked working in my lab a lot and want to stay there for grad school but I'm wondering if I'll be ""missing out"" by not applying elsewhere? There are higher-ranked universities than the one I want to attend (though it's still a well regarded public research university) but I don't want to take the risk of not finding a supervisor and lab I like or getting stuck with an uninteresting project.

I can't think of a good reason not to take this offer (and I really don't want to have to stress about admissions - I've spent my whole undergraduate career worried about grad admissions so I would maybe be able to ""relax"" for once), but still have fear of missing out. Any advice on what I should do?

EDIT: I want to go into academia and become a professor, but this is a field with relatively good industry outlook so there are opportunities elsewhere.",7,0,775.8682584850352,GradSchool
1st year courses in 4th year?,I'm a psych major and I heard that grad schools take into account what courses you take in your last 2 years. I've been rushing my majors' requirements since year 1 and never felt at ease taking anything else until my majors were complete (always felt like I had to stay on path first). I'm finally done with those but still have credits to finish & there're many introductory courses to different fields that interest me. My question is whether taking 100s in my last semester would really give admissions a negative impression in my future grad school applications? ,9,0,824.9966381146648,GradSchool
"I'm a freshman in college, what should I take care during my undergrad to get into grad school after college?","I'm a computer science student at UFRGS, Brazil, I'm on the second semester and I plan to attend a master's program (maybe a PhD too, but I think it's too early to think about it) outside Brazil. What can I do now to help me achieve that? 

I'm now doing undergraduate research in Machine Learning with one of my teachers, and if everything continues the way it is, I'm quite sure I can finish college with a high GPA. 

I'm interested in quantum computing and algorithms.",2,0,836.9952260776278,GradSchool
I don't understand this application requirement,"I am applying to LMU (Ludwig Maximilian) and in the required documents I see something I don't understand:

""For master's degree and doctoral studies: **written approval issued by the** relevant **master's degree** or doctoral studies degree **course** or the doctoral committee responsible""

The bold letters are mine

What does this mean that the approval should be issued by the course itself?, is this like a recommendation letter?, who should I ask for this approval?, I have looked around in the website and I see no position like ""Course representative"" nor ""Doctoral Committee"" for that matter.

Thanks a lot",1,0,845.3674251517019,GradSchool
Is this plagiarizing?, My master's project is an extended research of some stuff that I did in one of my grad classes. It's close enough that the background/introduction are basically the same exact information. Would I be okay to just copy/paste (with the original citations)? Or would I need to write it differently?,14,0,846.9052955220722,GradSchool
Should i do masters in engineering or management ? I am a bachelor in mechanical engineering with 4 years of experience.,"Hi everyone,
I graduated with a bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering from a reputable university in 2013 and have been working for a multi national company since then. My company is active in additive manufacturing/3D printing and i am the technical guy so i have developed a lot of technical skills and expertise in the field for the past 4 years. I am doing good in my job.

I have been thinking of doing my Masters in Engineering for quiet some time now but this time i gave it a serious thought because I am 26 and i feel like its now or never. All this time i was telling myself that i will definitely do a masters degree in engineering and not business because i like to stay in technical field.
I started looking for part time masters courses (mechanical engineering) but unfortunately all of the masters in mechanical engineering courses are full time and not masters. I don't want to quit my job for my masters because as i said that i am doing good in my job and i feel that i can really excel further plus also i don't have the money to sponsor my education full time.

With all that being said, i found this one course which is a masters in mechanical engineering course but focused on Renewable Energy (Renewable Energy Engineering). Though i was looking for more like general mechanical engineering but since i couldn't find that course, this is the only part time option i have. I applied for the course and the university accepted my application. Now i have to make a decision if i want to commit to it for 2 years or now.

I have the following concerns:

1. Renewable energy engineering is part of their mechanical engineering department and will be focused on mechanical engineering but its totally different from my existing field of job. Also, i am not that excited about the course but the only reason i applied for the course was to get a masters degree in mechanical engineering.

2. I have talked to some of my friends who are in the renewable energy field and according to them, it has a wide scope which means that i would be able to find a good job in the field upon completion of my masters but then i am building my career in 3d printing, do i really want to switch to another industry ?

3. I talked to this one friend today who works for renewable energy company and he advised that now its time that instead of doing a masters degree in engineering, i should go for management degree in order to climb up the corporate ladder. He said that you don't want to be the technical guy for the rest of your life and at one point, you would want to be at a manager position so why not invest your time and money in a MBA degree which will benefit you in the long run instead of getting a masters in renewable energy which is not even close to your existing job experience.

I am really really confused and don't know which option to choose ?",3,0,860.1811635776278,GradSchool
What you consider it a waste to teach overseas for a year after gradschool before jumping into your field?,"I'm in a two-year masters program and have just completed year one. I graduate next May and while a part of me wants to look for work in my area of expertise immediately, the other part of me wants to go overseas and teach English for a year. I admit I was bitten by the travel bug last summer. I can't tell if I'm doing this for the mere chance of living in another country or because deep down it's what I want to do. Any suggestions?",10,0,863.1800061702204,GradSchool
Starting M.Ed any advice?,"Hey I am starting my Masters of Education at University of Toronto in Developmental Psychology & Education this September (its a year and a half program).
Any tips from anyone who has done an M.Ed? What kind of workload should I expect? Any good studying tips? Really anything at all would be helpful. Thanks :)",1,0,883.8743927442944,GradSchool
What is better for Economics gradschool,"B.S. Economics & B.S. Mathematics
VS
B.S. Economics & B.A. Mathematics & Minor in Computer Science.",13,0,891.9090686702203,GradSchool
The mighty indecision,"Greetings all,

So I have 2 BA's, one in History and the other in Philosophy. I had planned to attend graduate school for Philosophy but I am having some blues about Philosophy. Not the typical I wouldn't be able to find a job nonsense, I was intending to go for a PhD anyway. I am feeling tugged toward the empirical and quantifiable subjects. While I continue to love Philosophy greatly, for those that don't know there isn't hastily made progress in Philosophy and I enjoy progress. I should note that I am a 4.0 student and take this decision very seriously, which is why I am seeking the advice and conversation with as many people as possible. Any recommendations for another subject for graduate school? Any other advice is welcomed and thanks.",20,0,907.7946010776278,GradSchool
Ag Econ PhD,"Sorry if this is not the place.


A guy at my university is graduating this semester and claims that he has been offered admission at Texas A&M, Purdue, and Michigan state for the Ag Econ PhD. But I know this guy and he hasn't taken more math than basic business calculus. 

Do Ag Econ PhD's not require extensive math like regular Econ PhD programs do?  How can he do this without calc 1,2,3, Linear algebra, real analysis, multi variable calc, and others? 

Is he lying? Or do those schools have horrible programs? ",1,0,917.7059205220722,GradSchool
Is there an option to start graduate courses without a GRE and complete GRE later to obtain MS degree?,,7,0,959.8699020035538,GradSchool
Getting back in academia after failing everything,"Due tu mental illness, I failed everything and will likely be kicked out of grad school.  The fact, though, is that when healthy, I'm 100% ""cut"" for this program.  I love it and can succeed in it.  I don't see myself doing ANYTHING else.  

My field is full of pretentious a.h. that think that if someone gets mentally ill during grad school, he simply wasn't able to, etc etc.  I swear my problems have different roots than grad school, and my failure is just the result of it.  

No school is gonna want to admit me ever again.

What the actual f can I do to make up for it and get back in grad school in my field?  I don't care where at this point, I just want another chance.",6,0,960.7061057072574,GradSchool
In job hunt mode. Feeling like a failure.,"I didn't do well on an exam (passed, but thought I was going to do a lot better) and it hit me hard. I found myself spending class filling out job applications. I even tailored my cover letter a few times. Most of the jobs listed are well paying, and made me stop to think of why I'm in grad school.

I like the subject material this semester (the first one not so much), but I'm just not good at being a student. My body is broken so lectures don't really work on me (my peers have said the lectures also suck for them, so maybe it isn't just me), the slides are vague and no professors use their textbook so I have to trust Google for everything. This doesn't feel like the way learning is supposed to happen, and according to my grades it isn't a good way to obtain knowledge. I haven't had a test or project yet that made me look back and say ""Wow I really learned from that, did well, and/or grew as a person!"" It all feels like drudgery or work that I'm not smart enough for.

I also realized that not one damn good thing has happened to me since I got here. My adviser is a jackass who hasn't said a supportive thing. That isn't to say he's negligent, he's tried to help me find a lab and pick the right courses, but he's gruff and talking to him always makes a day worse if not ruins it. I haven't really found anyone that seems like they could be a mentor. The people seem kind and helpful are in subjects I don't like or work with animals, which I just can't stomach. The people in subjects I like are unwelcoming and unfriendly.

I'm thinking it's time to pull the plug, but I'm mourning this pretty hard. I like the content, and I thought it'd add a new direction to my career. Oh well, off to be a mindless wage slave until the monotony and worthlessness of my life leads me to shoot myself.",8,0,964.2647399665167,GradSchool
Letter to grad students visiting PhD programs to interview,,0,0,979.0838834850352,GradSchool
Vent and need advice dismissed *sigh*,"After weeks of panic attacks, sobbing and questioning my point in life, I have found myself in that position every grad student fears....dismissal. I'm just in shock about how I ended up here. I reported an adjunct professor for being unprofessional. It only made me look bad because he lied and they believed him. I guess they didn't want to take my 2+ year history of not being a ""problem"" into consideration. Somehow now I'm no longer a good fit for the program. I'm unprofessional, I cannot handle challenges and I cannot comprehend concepts. Yet my GPA and history states otherwise. For a counseling program, a few of the professors are some of the most judgemental and  hypocritical individuals I've ever come across. I can't believe they are actual counselors in the field. So here I sit with my 45 credits and image destroyed because I actually took the quality of my education seriously. At this point I don't know what to do. I've appealed but my false reputation  proceeded me so it was worthless. They already made up their mind but still let me ramble for an hour of why I should stay. The kick in the stomach was when she suggested I try to get my degree in liberal arts....seriously? WTF will I do with that?!? I guess I shouldn't take this so hard, the program isn't even accredited so what can I expect. Should I try to transfer my credit hours to the liberal arts masters degree? I just don't know what to do with my 45 credit hours. I go in for my final appeal with the Chair tomorrow but I'm preparing for the worst. ",8,0,1001.8180732998501,GradSchool
Tips for statement of interest,"I dont know if this is the right sub for this, but Im applying to grad schools in a week or so and would love some feedback on the statement I've written so far. ",0,0,1016.0002145035537,GradSchool
"Masters student, just sent in apps for PhD programs. Do schools care about end of first semester/second semester grades?","PhD applications were/are due December and January. It's not even the end of my 3rd semester of my masters program (4 semesters total). How much do PhD programs care about how I do in my classes after my apps have been submitted?

(Feels a bit like senior year of high school...)",3,0,1044.9435825591095,GradSchool
need to blow off some steam,"I am a first semester in a Political Science program, doing a third language, and a philosophy external minor to go with my work for my primary and subfields. The work is not what is stressing me out. It actually keeps me stable because it gives me something to sink into. It's the Imposter Syndrome, occasional gender dysphoria, and the butting my head against the different academic tradition I am coming from. I went to a liberal arts college, whose workload was focused on being graduate school level so I am used to the verbs and nouns. I got to pick and choose my courses, and as a result I know a LOT about post-colonialism, Foucault, con. law, contemporary theorists, Marxism and anarchism and general left things, and history. Basically I kill at trivia. 

However when I go into class I am surrounded by people who have focused way more on the classical theorists, who I know nothing about. Aristotle, Plato, Socrates, Aquinas? I was reading Cavarero and Fanon and seeing if I could use their arguments to talk about suicide bombings. I am mad excited to learn more about those theorists and other niche parts of the fields that I never gave a glance at during undergrad.


I'm just in this bad emotional headspace where I am struggling with occasional gender dysphoria, not having my pronouns respected (except by three people) which genuinely helps during dysphoric episodes, and keep running into the block of while my professors respect me and my work my peers in theory just do not like me. They come from the tradition of echoing philosophers, and I come from the tradition of applying theory and being pushed to create new theories. I don't mind debating; I mind their pinpointing me during class. One of my peers laughed at me during my explanation of something they asked about. The professor has to support me during almost every class discussion when I am responding. They are all fairly well off cis white men, and I am the only genderqueer, disabled, and leftist person in my program. My partner is being really great, but is worried because I refuse to be in the closet about any of the things. 


The social aspect of grad school is really confusing. I am coming from a huge city which was incredibly diverse in all aspects, and it could be that I am still adjusting to living in a college town but fuck. I don't mind not having friends at school. I've always viewed school as a job to do well in (mostly in order to escape family.) I hate the absolute isolation in this city and also having to fight to be respected as a person. Oh the two professors who have gone through ""safe space"" training for queer folkx are people I feel uncomfortable with. ",2,0,1086.3675756146647,GradSchool
I cried because I submitted my prelim examination after the due date. Will I fail the examination because of being late?,I cried because I submitted my prelim examination after the due date. Will I fail the examination because of being late? Do you have similar experiences? I am so nervous. I am afraid that I will be kicked out from my program. ,6,0,1100.2138950591093,GradSchool
Can I mention my experience w/ growing up in a fundamentalist household in my personal statement?,"Hi all,

(I'm going to post this on gradadmissions as well, but thought it would be great to get some advice here too!) So I’m applying to several different grad programs next cycle and I just wanted to get your advice regarding whether or not I should mention this in some of my personal statements (additionally, several of the grad schools that I’m applying to have a diversity supplemental essay). So far, I’m considering applying to Physician Assistant, Speech Pathology, and Public Health programs. So here’s my experience: I was raised in a fundamentalist religious household. My parents did not want me to go to college, and if I did, it was because they wanted me to get married. I was never really about that life, as I wanted to go to college to be able to work in the medical field/help people (I will obviously phrase this a little bit better if I actually write about it, haha). My parents were forcing me to attend a religious college but I went against their wishes and attended another college (Applied without them knowing as well!). As a consequence, they essentially disowned me for my whole senior year of high school, (I’m originally from CA but attended college in MA) I flew across and moved into college by myself, and paid for my whole college myself through working 35+ hours a week while taking a full load of classes. Also as a consequence of leaving my religion, I lost the culture I was raised in and several of the people that I had grown up with and faced backlash from my whole family.

My question is- is there a way that I can frame this story that would be acceptable to grad schools? I know religion is a touchy topic that is generally off limits, but this is truly what makes me a diverse applicant and the experience of being completely on my own 3,000 miles away from home with no one to rely on has greatly shaped and influenced who I am today. What do you all think? Please let me know if I should/should not mention it and how best to frame it if I should!

Thank you!

",4,0,1127.2773209850352,GradSchool
Taking year off between undergrad and masters?,"I was recently offered to extend my summer internship by an entire year. Since I was originally planning on starting my masters in 3 weeks, this would mean I would postpone starting my degree until the fall of 2017. I just found out that it is logistically possible for me to do so and still remain in my masters program (since it will take me 2 years to complete my masters).

What are your thoughts on taking a gap year to work before grad school?

Some background, my undergrad was mechanical engineering and my masters will be in electrical (sounds complicated but don't worry it is possible for me!)",5,0,1137.1988024665168,GradSchool
Taxes on graduate stipends,"I am starting my PhD and have not been able to find much information about how my stipend will be taxed. Even our program administrator does not seem to know much. 

So to the other grad students here: are your stipends taxed? What is the tax rate? ",7,0,1138.065110336887,GradSchool
Are undergrads with a low GPA simply screwed?,"The graduate programs I'm most interested in (physiotherapy) require high GPAs to be competitive - usually 3.6+. As a student who didn't take undergrad seriously until about year 3, my CGPA is not even close to that mark. My GPA over the past 2 years or so is pretty good and I'm planning on improving it even more over this upcoming year, but my CGPA will never be representative of the kind of student I am, simply because I had a couple bad semesters. 

That being said, are students like myself doomed because of this? I'm already heading into a non-degree school year simply to boost my GPA. I feel like I essentially have three options: lower my goals and choose an easier grad program (no guarantee I even get into those considering I was denied last year) or go to college, keep taking non-degree courses until my GPA is high enough (this could take years), or start a whole new undergrad degree (probably not feasible or sensible).

Any thoughts?",9,0,1140.806499225776,GradSchool
Are post-graduate degrees a waste of money for millennials?,,3,0,1156.6300177442945,GradSchool
Unsure about grad school choice.,"I was accepted to Tulane and a bunch of other mid-tier schools for an MPH. After much deliberation, I decided to attend Tulane because they had most of what I wanted. I will be starting my first year this Fall.

I'm starting to have some anxiety about my choice. I am wondering if I should have applied to schools with even more resources and better financial aid (such as Harvard, John Hopkins, Columbia, etc). My quandary has been heightened by the fact that my first publication has just been published. I am also the first author of this paper.

Is this a common worry? Or is it a sign that I should defer for a year and consider applying to other schools?",8,0,1177.263235336887,GradSchool
Should I apply to a psychological anthropology master's program abroad?,"A little background:
I just graduated with my BS in psychology and a minor in anthropology and my career goal is to become a psychological anthropologist. The only problem is that it's apparently a small field and there are very few specifically psychological anthropology graduate programs in the US (I'm a US citizen). There are a few other US programs here that are related to the field that I was able to find on the SPA website. I found a few programs I like in the UK, specifically two master's programs in the UK that I qualify for. I was originally planning to apply to doctoral programs here in the states, but this seems like a great opportunity to go abroad and study exactly what I want to study. 

Questions:
1)Would going for a master's in this field be a waste of time/money/effort when I could just go straight for my PhD here? 

2)Has anyone gone to grad school abroad and can give me any insight on what it would be like to apply and/or attend?

Any advice would be greatly appreciated!",7,0,1178.2212214479982,GradSchool
CU Boulder Physics?,"Hey everyone- Getting ready for GREs and stressing over admissions, particularly hoping to get into CU Boulder Any tips or advice on applying?

A little more detail: I'm taking my GREs in the fall, but so far on all the practice tests I've taken, I've placed about ~98% on average. Not sure how I'll do on the physics GRE, but hoping for the best. 

My GPA is at a 3.03, though, and this is what worries me; I got very ill for a year and ended up failing my classes. Before you ask why I didn't drop, that is a hard question because I guess initially I just didn't want to. A lot of the time, I told myself I'd make it work, and by the time it very much wasn't working, it was too late to drop. I don't know, I hated just giving up, and it took me a year and a half for me to give up - to just stop going to classes and going to work. As background on this, I had a full body staph infection due to my eczema becoming infected. 

 I'm sure that my letters of rec will be fine, and my GRE score should be good, but I'm worried about my GPA; is that an end all be all? ",5,0,1188.7261172813314,GradSchool
"rejected from my top choice grad school, what is the best method to ask for feedback on my application, so that I may apply again next cycle?",,9,0,1191.124334873924,GradSchool
Regional universities and getting into grad school,"Is it much harder to get into grad school coming from a regional, i.e. non-research university than from a research university?

The reason I'm asking is that's where I'm coming from, a regional university that isn't that well known. I was talking to a professor about grad school and he made it sound like you needed to be an exemplary student to even be considered (specifically he said above a 3.5 GPA, lots of extracurricular activities related to your major, lots of research, and great GRE scores). I have a feeling that he was talking about high end/top tier grad schools (because he brought up the case of one student who got into Georgia Tech). I'm not aiming for top tier, I'm going more midrange because I know my stats aren't that great (not necessarily bad, just not the greatest they could be). Specifically I have a 3.38 cum. GPA (had a couple bad quarters due to mental health reasons, have a year to go and bringing it back up), 160V and 154Q (retaking in August), and some research experience (an REU, some independent research, and I'm currently working on some more independent research).

So, again, does applying to grad school with a degree from a regional university make it more difficult to get into grad school, even one that is midrange? 

Thanks",1,0,1199.1057816331834,GradSchool
Any Business School faculty here?,"Hi,  I'm doing a capstone exercise for my MBA here at Portland State University.  We are determining the marketability of a boardgame to help with studying for the CPA exam.  We have determined that two potential markets are CPA candidates and those who teach them. 

If you have a few minutes we have a survey at, https://portlandstate.qualtrics.com//SE/?SID=SV_dnEm2eijJe7K01T

Thanks in advance if you take the time to do this survey.

Darik",0,0,1199.19994829985,GradSchool
"What is the difference between Pharmacology & Pharmaceutical science as a PhD, Which is more oriented to drug discovery","Hello I am a graduate of Pharmacy and i am thinking of making a PhD in either Pharmacology or Pharmaceutical sciences. My goal is to work in drug discovery in pharmaceutical companies, so which one would be better ? Any suggestions or personal experiences ?",13,0,1206.914485336887,GradSchool
Do I combine my Junior College GPA and my University GPA when applying to graduate school?,"I just recently finished my undergraduate degree (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology B.S) and I am applying to a master's program. I got a 3.08 at my junior college and a 2.95 GPA at my university. Combining both of those GPAs together gives me a GPA of a 3.015. This meets the 3.0 GPA requirement. 

My question is that do I put the combined GPA as a 3.015 or what?  What is the GPA that I put down on my application?

Thanks so much for your help! ",13,0,1209.0929807072575,GradSchool
Petitioning for in-state tuition,"I am finally able to petition for in-state tuition after living in a state for 5 years due to marrying a resident this summer (he has lived here his whole life). My school needs me to write a 1-page statement stating the primary reason for my move, and any other information I may find relevant to my request. It started out as education but turned into me planning on staying and working here. 

Has anyone successfully petitioned for in-state tuition before? How long was your statement?",10,0,1213.0543580220724,GradSchool
What graduate degrees can I pursue with a bachelor's in law? (Looking to get into another field entirely),"I want to continue my education, but I want to go in a completely different direction. I have good grades (4.0 GPA) and some papers written, but this isn't the field for me. What graduate degrees can you pursue with a non-specific undergraduate degree or with perhaps a few added courses? Currently located in South America, more than willing to move. If I do manage to get into a masters in a different field, will my undergrad hurt my chances for a PhD?",4,0,1222.423675151702,GradSchool
Decided I want to go to Grad School,"Finished up my undergrad a few years ago and have worked a bunch of different jobs since.  IT technician, bartender, baseball lessons,waiter etc etc.  Even when I was doing my undergrad, I was working several jobs which effected my scholastic performance.  Have come to the realization as I approach 29 that no matter how hard I work, I won't achieve true wealth until I begin an actual career instead of working job to job.  I have a degree in Liberal Arts - Social Sciences and have always thought I'd make a good history teacher.  Any advice on how I can jumpstart that career path and specifically getting into a grad school program would be much appreciated!!! ",4,0,1243.2793927442945,GradSchool
"High ambitions, low grades, grad school?","Hello everyone, I am an undergraduate student who got into math suddenly in 1st year. I was never a math whiz, never competed in math competitions, etc. 


I go to a decent Canadian university, majoring in Math and Computer Science. I have been told you need 85 % or higher (or perhaps even 90% or higher?) to get into a decent math grad school with good reference letters. I'm afraid that my grades are too low for this. I really want to go to grad school for math (my area of interest is probability/real analysis), but I feel like my brain is too average for this. As you can see in my grades, I have worked my butt off for my real analysis courses, but always managed a grade below the class average. I also have computer science/stat grad schools in mind, as I have a strong interest in machine learning and data science. I have the following Math and CPSC grades in undergrad:


Calc III: B 

Calc IV: A+ 

Linear Algebra: A+

 Intro to proofs: A- 

Differential Equations: B+ 

Complex Variables: A- 

Intro to Probability: A- 

Real Analysis I: C !!!!

Real Analysis I: B- !!

Algebra: B

Intro to program: B+ 

intro to software: B+ 

Algorithms: A (the class average was super high for this class)

 Computer Systems: C+ (below class average..)


My cumulative gpa is 75% and my upper level courses gpa is around 77%. I have seen so many brilliant kids in my classes that I can't help thinking that I'm too dumb for math/computer science/university. I am aware that the cream of the crops go to grad school, but I'm always just below average...

I am in my 3rd year already. I'm thinking to do two extra years because I want to take more courses. I'm taking a year off to work in the industry (actuarial/software) field, and I'm hoping to self study 4th year level math courses and work on side programming projects. I really wanted a research position at my school this summer, but my low grades have prevented this. I'd like to ask my professors for advice but I'm too timid that they will laugh at my grades and give their honest opinions that I am not meant for academia.

But that's basically what I'm asking: Should I continue to pursue my dreams for academia/grad school? Suppose I do really well in my 4th year in the upper level math courses and cpsc courses, is there a hope for me to get into grad school? I'm thinking some of the top schools in Canada. I was also considering studying for Putnam exams, perhaps doing well in it will increase my chances? But I think that is a long shot since I've never done math competitions as I mentioned above and I'm most definitely not a genius. Also, what are some ways to get research positions with low grades? So far I've been getting no replies from the professors I have emailed... I only have a year or two left in undergrad, and I feel pressed for time for getting research experience and drastically improving my performance.


Thank you, any HONEST advice/opinions/tips for studying pure math will mean immensely to me. Thank you.",5,0,1257.655712188739,GradSchool
Is it a must to read some articles before thinking of a research question,"Or can a research question emerge from a personal experience, and then start searching for articles to answer that question?",11,0,1263.9357237628128,GradSchool
Why would my prof email to ask this,"My prof emailed me asking if I can ""give permission to upload paper to Turnitin to ensure that there is no plagiarism"". She added that this is a ""regular procedure each year for all classes"". (But it is not even part of course outline that we have to use Turnitin. And of all classes, it is only this prof who is asking me this). I've paraphrased and cited everything, but am afraid she might do something tricky?? Also, I'm sure this is just towards me, since other people submitted hard copies of the paper.",7,0,1268.0840455220723,GradSchool
Humanities PhD w/o funding?,"I know, another post about funding. Sorry. 

I am currently finishing my M.A. in English. Just finished thesis revisions this morning. I was accepted into 1 program (only applied to 3). However, as the title states, there is no funding. My initial reaction is no. I know how frowned upon an unfunded English PhD is. To be honest, I was so overwhelmed during the application process with the grad program I'm in now that my applications were not as great as they could have been. But this program expressed a lot of interest in my work (I know, not enough to give me a TA spot first, I get it). BUT, the department offered me a (very small) fellowship and also said second years are always awarded Teaching Assistantships, though there is no guarantee. 

This is a great school. The program aligns perfectly with my interests. The city is beautiful and across the country (Here in the U.S) and I've never  lived out of my comfort zone or very far from home, so it would be a drastic and terrifying change (but in a good way). 

I want a PhD, I will get one no matter what. Even if it means reapplying next year. But am I crazy if I accept this offer? Would being without funding for a year be a terrible decision? Has this happened to anyone else? If so, do you regret paying for grad school? Does this look bad for future job prospects in academia? 
Just looking for some perspective as I am supposed to let the program know ASAP. I would appreciate any advice you have to offer or any comments about your own experiences. Thanks, Reddit. ",10,0,1280.8517307072575,GradSchool
Best Biostatistics programs in America?,"Just wondering which schools had some of the best Biostatistics Masters and PhD programs in America, and how selective they are if you have any idea.",6,0,1292.4780154294797,GradSchool
Taking my first grad course next semester as a Senior. Any tips? What are the biggest differences you've noticed between undergrad courses and post grad? I'm just nervous!,,8,0,1310.4012908924426,GradSchool
[x-post /r/GradAdmissions]Worth applying to PhD(Comp sci)?,"I'm interested in pursuing graduate studies in Computer Science(Programming Languages specialty). I graduated from a pretty unknown private school with a B.S. double major in CS & Mathematics in May 2015(3.6/4.0). Since then I've been working in the industry as a software engineer(web development).


Throughout my undergraduate degree I didn't really do any research as there were 0 opportunities in my departments. Towards the end of my degree I was able to land a small job helping a physics prof translate Matlab -> C++ for an experiment but it didn't get very far.


So my dilemma is that I've decided over the past year that I want to return to school to pursue a research oriented degree. My reasons for doing this is that I ideally would like to one day become a TT professor at a university. Since my application seems pretty lackluster I've been thinking that it would be in my best interest to apply to M.S. programs, do some research and work on a masters thesis. After doing so I would apply for PhD programs. This has the downside of costing more $ as well as most likely taking more time to complete.


Regardless of the path taken either M.S -> PhD or straight to PhD I am determined to at least try to do it. I'm just looking for feedback on if I even have a shot at PhD programs given my current status or if i'm correct in assuming M.S. -> PhD will yield me much better results that it's worthwhile investing the time and money. As well as any input on how I could possibly go about making my application better overall.

[Link to original thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/gradadmissions/comments/4a2rqn/worth_applying_to_phdcomp_sci/)",2,0,1312.7012330220723,GradSchool
Are online degrees respected in academia?,"So I am currently working on my MEd in Curriculum and Instruction online at Texas A&M (which is also where I got my BA in English). I am a first year English teacher at a high school, and I am getting this degree for two reasons: 1) to make myself a little more marketable and 2) just in case I actually decide to stay in secondary Education. 

My main goal is to teach English at college. To do this, I will need an MA in English (to teach at junior college-- I'm going to get my PhD EVENTUALLY). My original plan was to finish my MEd then start the MA English in person at a local university. However, I found an online English program at UT Tyler that seems pretty good-- and I could more easily do this while working on the MEd and teaching full time than if I were to take classes in person. 

So what do y'all think? I am only 22, so I could wait it out until I am more available to make traditional classes I guess. Would a college be hesitant to hire someone with an online MA in English? 

Thanks in advance!!",10,0,1316.8800061702204,GradSchool
I feel bad but my program seems too easy,"Hello,

I am working towards an MPH. I work full-time and am taking two online classes this semester. 

I feel guilty because they do not require much work. They have assigned readings but they usually dont apply to the assignments, so I have little motivation to do them. You might say that I should not be doing the program if I don't want to do all of the readings, but I disagree and thats a whole another subject.

I typically put in about 6 hours a week into both courses combined, and am doing fine grade wise so far. For some reason I feel like this is too good to be true or that skipping readings will catch up with me. I just feel bad but the classes do not provide any reinforcement or incentive to do a lot of these readings.",6,0,1337.103084873924,GradSchool
I don't know how to choose a schoole,"So, I've been accepted into two great schools for what I want to do (PhD in Neuroscience with research focusing on addiction, specifically molecular mechanisms of drug action and possible therapeutics). However, one school isn't ranked, but has more ""OOO WOW COOL"" research, and one school is ranked, still has research I'm excited about and offers specializations in Pharmacology as well as translational medicine. Both schools have translational medicine programs. 

I'm having a really hard time picking between the schools because the unranked school really flattered me during my interview, brought me in for a one on one interview, and I got a really good feel for the staff there. Both schools, however are great overall.

How much does ranking really matter? I'm trying to factor this into all the deciding factors, but its hard since I feel they are the same for me as far as availability of research and mentors and environment. 
Thanks!!!",8,0,1344.4060825591093,GradSchool
"To Grad School or not to Grad school, that is the question."," I applied to a few technician positions and was lucky enough to be hired in a new lab at a medical school.  I'm currently assisting in cardiology research and I absolutely love it.  My dream is to continue with grad school in cancer immunology.  I've spoken with the graduate department, and they said that although my undergraduate GPA is very low (which it is), with strong recommendations, research experience, and a decent GRE score, I have a decent chance of getting in.  A few questions I have as of now is:

1)  How is the job market for PhDs in cancer immunology at the moment?

2)  My dream is to be able to work as a scientist for Genentech, they have post doctoral positions but is extremely competitive to get (266,000+ applications for 3-500 job positions), how can I maximize my chances of doing a post-doc with them?

3)  How stable are jobs in the private sector vs academia?

4)  Would doing a masters in bioinformatics and getting an MBA make me a more attractive for an extremely competitive post-doc position?

Thanks!",1,0,1406.806985336887,GradSchool
Working full time and PhD Engineering part time.,"I have heard that it is possible to do MS while working full time but is it possible to do a PhD? I was wondering about this cause while MS can be course/project based, a PhD is all about research so would the said student do his/her research on the weekends,  during night time while working 8-5 normal day job? How would this work?  Would they still receive grants? Who would pay for the PhD ? Company, school or student? And in the end would it be worth it in terms of ROI?",12,0,1409.2239066331833,GradSchool
SOP for a professional masters instead of a PhD?,Most of the guides and advice I find are geared for SOP for a PhD program. How should I approach one for a terminal masters? Should I still be mentioning professors?,3,0,1417.0613256146648,GradSchool
What is the difference,"Between facilitated meeting and non-facilitated meeting? My classmates and myself had issues with our papers, but they got non-facilitated while I had facilitated.",2,0,1430.2289413554056,GradSchool
Got a amazing job offer - should I stop my graduate application process ?,"Got a amazing job offer - my backup plan was to enter graduate school. Due to the deadline I started working on the letter of intents. 

There is a change though if I do not perform I will be fired within 2 months at which point I will have to leave the UK. 

I am applying for graduate school in Canada - so I was curious should I continue with the application process ? Since lets say I do perform well for the first 2 months but then get fired 4 months in. 

I would then want to go back to graduate school in may. 

Do you think if I apply and then quit and then reapply to the same uni I will get rejected since last time I rejected when I did get the offer ? 

Would really appreciate your help. 


(I have been lurking a while and would like to say this forum and the commentators have been awesome)",10,0,1434.0606427442945,GradSchool
Average GRE scores in percentages?,"A school I'm considering had percentages in each section listed for their averages. "" GRE: Verbal 73%, Quant 75% with a 4.5 on the writing portion"".
So does that mean the average is a 251.6? Thanks",4,0,1441.248200614665,GradSchool
"I'm interested in going to grad school for HCI, but I'm worried my application isn't strong enough","I graduated in May with a degree in psychology with a minor in art from a good state school and I'm spending this year off exploring my interests. I really enjoyed the material from my behavioral psych courses and the problem solving process behind my graphic design classes and I want to get a masters in hci to pursue a career as a ux designer. (Some of the schools I'm interested in are UMich, IU and UMD) The problem is I'm having doubts about whether I have a strong enough application to get in. 

I have a 3.6 gpa with a lot of experience in youth development and done work in two local art galleries. I think I can get some strong recs from two of my design professors and one more from my current employer. I'm guessing my strategy should be relating my past work to the field in my personal statement but I'm very concerned that my lack of experience will be a big minus to my application. I haven't taken my gre yet but i will soon.

Thoughts? Should I wait another year and re-strategize or go for it? ",2,0,1457.8780038554057,GradSchool
Any Ideas for Graduate Programs that Would Fit My Background?,"Hello /r/GradSchool,

Background: I am a junior (Class of 2017) history student with no research experience. While I am 3rd year status, this is technically only my 2nd year of college. AP credit combined with summer coursework before and after my first year gives me junior status. I have a 3.91GPA (w/ a 4.00 history GPA) and various leadership positions in 3-4 organizations on campus (with commitments to 5 organizations). I have a summer of low quality work experience at a local non-profit (remember, i've only had one summer so far in college). This summer, I will be studying abroad in Berlin and working remotely for a small business in my town, along with writing freelance journalism. If it's any extra help, I attend a USN&WR top 15 undergraduate institution. In general, I'm interested in law, journalism, business, public policy, and/or any field that would allow me to help those in-need (indirectly or directly). I'm interested in attending a graduate school that is at the top of its field (or near).

Question: What are some graduate programs (school or field) that I might not know of that I would be qualified for and would be interesting to purse?

Thanks for your time
",1,0,1459.7256658924427,GradSchool
PhD Admissions - Low GRE / HIGH GPA,"Hello All,

I don't post on this forum very often, but wanted to get some feedback and additional insight into a major stressor in my life. I am applying to PhD programs this fall in Organizational Leadership or Organizational Behavior - I have a list of about 8 schools that I have an interest in applying to, fancy little spreadsheet that tells me due dates, expectations, etc. Though there is one obstacle that is turning into a major concern for me - I didn't do well on the GRE. 

I am retaking the test next week, but am still concerned that improvement won't be enough to get me in. Below are the scores for the previous GRE:

Cumulative: 303 (V157, Q146, AW 5)

Not great...I know. I'm hoping that I have some redeeming qualities in the eyes of the admissions council - I have been doing this line of work (Human Resources) for 10 years. I have a MS with a 3.7 GPA in Organizational Leadership, a BS in Mgmt with a 3.3. In my SOP I'm planning on talking about how I was focused on getting an education despite growing up poor, single parent family, putting myself through my degrees - I worked the entire time. I have some incredible professors offering me letters of recommendation from both my undergrand and master's programs.

Am I right to worry so much about the current GRE score? I don't test well, particularly with a timed mathematical test. I love to write, and I've been told I write beautifully and thoroughly. Has anyone else been in the same boat as I am, how did it turn out?

Much appreciated,",5,0,1463.0087677442943,GradSchool
Is a MS in Applied Mathematics worth anything?,"I'm currently thinking of, next Fall, attending graduate school for a MS in Applied Mathematics (potentially modeling and simulation) to test what I think of graduate studies. If I like it a lot, I would go for a PhD, but if I didn't then I would call it and have at least the MS.

Is this a smart career idea, or would it be better to just go straight into the work force?",1,0,1463.8628186702203,GradSchool
Graduate/Undergraduate GPA and 2nd Grad Program. How do I strengthen my application?,"My basic situation is this:

I really messed up in undergrad. I majored in International Relations (but did about 40 credits of Stat/IT on the side). Through a combination of a really rough last semester and some other factors I graduated in 2014 with a 2.8. My major GPA was about 3.4 (mostly through straight up lack of completing assignments rather than any actual trouble with the material). It was a combination of me kind of being a slacker, having some depression issues (now diagnosed), and undiagnosed (now diagnosed) ADD that basically made it a real challenge to focus on anything long enough to get it done. That being said I'm not trying to make excuses - I know I fucked up.

I am currently in grad school for an M.S. in Data Science. I really only got into this program because the school is only moderately competitive and I took some classes for the program as a non-degree student, aced them, and applied to the program and transferred them in. I never would have gotten in had I not taken/aced those classes. I'm now halfway through the program and have a 3.8 GPA and expect it to remain about the same.

My issue, is that it has always been my plan to go back and get an MA in International Affairs/Security (I want to work with data in this field and want to be able to combine analytics skills and subject matter expertise - which I feel like would be a unique skillset). The field has always been a passion of mine. The trouble is that IR programs in the DC area are pretty damn competitive. I don't really want to leave the DC area and I'd like to get into a good program. I'm really aiming for the Elliott School at GWU since it would allow me to attend part-time at night.

I guess my question is, what should I do to give myself a chance at this school? 

My undergrad program was a top 10 nationally ranked program in IR and I did scrape a 3.4 in the major (even though my overall was a 2.8) Even the major GPA isn't great for a social science but I guess it's better that I got at 3.4 at a good program rather than an unknown one. I'm doing well in my current grad program and I'm going to try to market myself to GWU as someone who can perform quantitative research (a pretty sought after yet underdeveloped skill in IR academia). I'm currently auditing French at my undergrad institution to improve my foreign language skills which are required for an MA in IR. I'm also doing independent research in IR topics and am hopefully getting published in my school's graduate research journal. 


I'm wondering what else I can do to improve my chances. I work full-time in data analytics at a decently paying job and I don't think I want to turn around and take an entry level policy job (that would probably equal a 20K paycut). Also taking non-degree courses at GWU isn't super economically feasible (living in DC is expensive y'all) although I could maybe swing one course if I had to. 

Basically I'm working full time, doing grad school part time, doing audits and research on the side...basically busting my butt to make up for undergrad. But I still feel like it won't be enough. Any suggestions on how I could improve my application? I plan on applying for Fall 2017 but I'm trying to figure things out now since a bad undergrad GPA can't be mitigated in a couple months or anything.

Sorry for the length. Any advice would be really helpful/appreciated.",4,0,1474.849774688739,GradSchool
I'm not sure if I'll make it,I can't make myself do homework. I'm getting my master's in social work and I used to love studying social work. Now I can barely make myself to work and I dread doing my work. I don't even have an idea what I want to do with the degree! I've considered dropping out but I know I'll regret it.,5,0,1488.8864413554056,GradSchool
Advice on starting (or starting over) at a new institution as an assistant professor (Inside Higher Ed),,0,0,1513.3817422813315,GradSchool
"How Many Graduate Schools Should I Apply To + Any Application Tips? (Master's level, Canada)","Hey everyone, here's a bit of background if needed:

- I'm going into my fourth year of an honours interdisciplinary arts and science program. 

- I have a 4.0 GPA, lots of community involvement and some good student jobs on my résumé. 

- I've done an undergraduate thesis in my third year, and have been published twice (one with an institutional university journal, one with an institutional undergrad journal). 

- I've already decided who to ask for references, and now I'm working on the mountain of paperwork needed to actually apply to graduate schools. So far I'll be applying to two domestic schools (Toronto and York), and OGS + NSERC/SSHRC funding. 

- The Humanities Program at York is my top choice, and then there's one at U of T which is my second choice.

**Basically, I was just wondering if anyone has advice on:
1. How many schools to apply to?
2. General application tips?**",17,0,1515.0825987628132,GradSchool
Trying to develop my first hypothesis/project,,0,0,1518.2504922813316,GradSchool
Grad School Ideas for Psychology Major,"I'm a 3rd year Psychology B.A. student at UCI. I plan on applying for grad school, but I'm conflicted on which program I should go for. I'm thinking about either Industrial Organizational Psychology, Social Work or Occupational Therapy.
Some background information
I took Statistics for a year instead of the typical calculus route. I like research, especially collecting, compiling and analyzing data. I'm not too fond of children. I have been told by my I/O professor that I should switch out of my major and into computer science since I tend to shy away from social interaction. 
Any comment or advice will be greatly appreciated. Thank you. ",5,0,1523.609925151702,GradSchool
"I quit my PhD program two years ago, but ESA is happening now in Baltimore and I'm so jealous. /venting","I don't regret quitting that program, but I regret/resent that pursuing a PhD just doesn't seem like a good life decision for me.",10,0,1526.1780732998502,GradSchool
Incoming End-of-Grad School rant,"/rant

Ahh! So I've lost all motivation to write. I have one year of data left in the field, though I don't have much hope for the results as we have had two months with 10+ inches of rain. Won't allow for the best results for yield when even the weeds aren't growing. 

But anyway. I'm writing up my dissertation in the hopes to get out of school. I've got a lot of good data, but I just don't have the motivation to finish it. I need to get writing, but I don't care anymore. 

I love my topic, my field, and even my lab mates. But I just have had it with grad school. The pay sucks, the hours suck, I never have enough time, I always procrastinate. I'm sick and tired of having outstanding bills that I can't touch. 


Sigh...back into my dissertation I go... 

/end rant",3,0,1540.109658947998,GradSchool
What was your experience reading research papers for the first time?,I'm starting grad school in the fall and I am preparing by reading up on some cutting edge technologies (STEM focus here) and I find myself reading one paper and it balloons to me reading 5+ papers due to researching methods and other terminologies I have no understanding of. Is this a common thing starting out or will I forever have no idea what I am reading about as I go through my PhD program?,12,0,1555.1005038554056,GradSchool
NSF etc undergraduate status,"Hi all!

I'm applying for PhD programs and fellowships (grfp etc) this fall. I'm in a dual master's/bachelor's program in a STEM field, and I won't have technically graduated from undergrad by the time I apply (though I'll be in 5th year). I'm curious how this will affect the application process--is it a problem? Has anyone done this? I'll ""officially"" graduate in December and back-count units into the master's program. 

Thanks so much for your time.",5,0,1564.0556195961462,GradSchool
How are online courses viewed by admissions when used to fulfill only intro-level prerequisites?,"Planning to take upper-level psych classes in a classroom setting that would be needed to consider the clinical route (i.e. abnormal, social, psychopathology).  I was going to take intro Psych over the summer online so that I can do these classes in the Fall.  It's too expensive for me to do Intro in a traditional class over the summer.  Was a Biology major in college, good grades, hoping/planning to prove ability in the on-campus classes in the Fall, but want some Intro for prep.

How does that look applying to graduate programs?  How is that seen?  Really, it feels like the best option for my time/money, as a way to prepare for the more intense classes.

Thanks for your input-- coming to this from a different field. ",2,0,1575.8586751517018,GradSchool
"Seeking Advice: Life, Love, and The Pursuit of a Physics Tenure Track Position","    
   I am about to start my last year in a physics program and begin applying to grad schools, and I need help! I'm trying to weigh in several factors all at once and I need to know how to approach each so that I can strike a nice balance. I first and foremost want to teach, no matter what happens to me. I've always like teaching and helping people. So, I'd like to get a tenure track position in physics to teach physics. I like research, but I love teaching, so I'm willing to do the research ( I enjoy it enough to do it for the next umpteen years), but I'm unsure of how to get some teaching experience while I get my degree? Also, I'm trying to narrow down grad schools, and need to figure out what to balance. Geography is important since my SO and I will have to move together, so to accomodate here I'd like not to be more than a 12-hour drive or so from where I am now (Kentucky), but if it comes down to it, I will go farther if necessary. Additionally, I'd like a program that is supportive of teaching, but also good enough to help with the job search when it comes to it. I have absolutely no clue what field of physics I'd like to do, because they all interest me, besides nonlinear dynamics and optics. If I had to guess, I would say low-temp physics would be neat to work with. I would also like advice on a career path to a tenure track position, and what job prospects are like. I'm not looking to teach at an R1 or anything, just somewhere I won't be stuck teaching intro courses my whole life (like I would at a community college). Anyway, I'm just lost and could use some advice on narrowing down my search for grad school. Thanks!

TL;DR:
1. What schools are teaching-friendly?
2. How do I get teaching experience?
3. What are job prospects like in experimental physics?
",17,0,1590.3369506146648,GradSchool
Advice on grad school admission - fall 2015,"I have completed by undergraduate studies in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in a top Institution in India and have gained nearly 4 years experience in the Middle East (Oil and Gas) through my role as Instrumentation and System Engineer. I am looking for an entry into Aerospace and Def. Industry. and have applied to a few programs in USA. Been accepted at SMU ( systems Engineering), Embry Riddle Daytona Beach ( Electrical) and UAH (Mechanical engineering). My question is how would the programs/universities fare against each other in terms of reputation, research, student life, and employ ability after graduation ?  I am aware of the security clearance requirements in USA, so I may not be eligible for certain jobs in USA. Although I am open to returning back to my home country, I hope I can recover the cost of my education before I do so.
Any feedback would be great! Thanks!  ",1,0,1595.4410709850351,GradSchool
Accepted! Would I be taking on too much?,I will be starting on my masters in the fall. I've been awarded a TA position as well. I have experience with student housing as an RA and other things. There is a new opening for a housing and student life coordinator. I can do the things described but should I? I'm a music education student if that matters. Thoughts?,4,0,1611.7561172813316,GradSchool
Title between defending and graduation?,So I defended and completed all the requirements for my PhD but my PhD will not be officially conferred until August. I am emailing professors about potential postdoc positions but how do I sign the email? PhD Candidate isn't appropriate and PhD makes it seem I have already had the degree conferred. In Europe it would seem that people would use PhD graduand during this period but is that odd for America? ,2,0,1615.7600061702203,GradSchool
How do you study?,"Just looking for tips.   

Read the book before class?  Read the book a few times?  Skim?  ",4,0,1630.8997631146647,GradSchool
What Country should I go to for Grad School?,"Quick background of myself:

* I am a US citizen 
* I have finished my undergraduate partly in China and the US
* I have a wife and a son
* I plan to study economics or something similar for my master degree
* I speak English and Chinese (as does my wife and son)

I am looking at Canada, Australia and Germany. My reason for Canada is that it is cheaper than the US; Australia because its about the same price and I have never been there; and Germany because its almost free (undergraduate is free minus some fees). I do not want to go back to China for school but I am open to just about any other country. ",8,0,1638.2328070961462,GradSchool
Should I turn abstract into publication?,"Howdy all,
Ive had an abstract complete for a while and the topic of turning it into a publication has never come up between my advisor and I.  I'm writing it up right now, but I am curious as to if there is any reason I should not try to publish.

It is a descriptive study; we used no interventions.  I know that if I publish I won't be able to use my graphs in future work and that may be a problem as this is my only data at present.  I don't know...any advice?",13,0,1650.1306658924425,GradSchool
What's your favorite fancy cocktail?,I'll be defending in just over a week and need some suggestions for fancy post-defense cocktails.,11,0,1652.1856195961466,GradSchool
Rutgers Chemistry,"So I got into Rutgers Chem for my PhD and was offered a pretty sweet fellowship package where I'll be making close to $50k for the duration of my studies. I'm happy. At the same time, I was rejected from every other school I applied to (All very selective programs, to be fair). I guess I'm just wondering how people view the school and/or the program, what it's reputation nationally is, etc. I don't know how to ask this question sensitively- anyone go there and find work afterward? For what it's worth, I'll probably be going into industry when I'm done. ",3,0,1657.4652029294796,GradSchool
Considering the Master of Public Administration and Policy Online degree program from American University,"Here is the link to the program. I am wanting to get into a position where I can do policy analysis and possibly administration in government and non-profits. I already have an MSW and feel the two combined would go well together. Any thoughts?

http://programs.online.american.edu/mpap/master-of-public-administration-and-policy?utm_source=CampusSite&utm_medium=Microsite&utm_campaign=CampusSite_Microsite&cmgfrm=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.american.edu%2Fonlinelearning%2Fdegrees%2Findex.cfm",3,0,1695.9665802442944,GradSchool
GRE?,"Hey everyone,

I'm a junior EE major looking into grad schools for BME.

When is the best time to take the GRE? I know a lot of my friends took it senior year, but I'm worried about not doing well.

Any advice is appreciated!
",11,0,1709.725283947998,GradSchool
Is it harder to get into Stanford's computer science graduate program or electrical engineering graduate program?,"I’m currently an Electrical and Computer Engineering student at a top 10 university in both computer engineering and computer science. I have a 3.9 GPA, research experience in a machine learning and data mining lab, and will be interning at Google next summer. My goal is to get my name on a paper by the end of this year too. (I haven’t taken my GRE yet because I’m only a sophomore). 

I would love to go to Stanford (my dream school) for my masters degree and I would like to focus on software and I really enjoy learning about machine learning and other AI concepts. I looked at both the EE and CS program at Stanford, and both programs offer what I’m interested in, but I’m looking for some advice to which one I should apply to. I’m trying to maximize my chances at being accepted as a Stanford graduate student.",6,0,1728.0602607998499,GradSchool
Fellowship Guides,"Hey Guys,
I was wondering if a fellowship guide exists showing the 'best-fellowships' for grad school. 
Fellowships that provide living allowances, insurance, full tuition, and other stuff that would steer me toward applying there.
Any help would be appreciated!",10,0,1750.081858022072,GradSchool
Unsure what to do- possibly being asked to leave PhD,"Background:  I'm a 3rd year PhD student in Scotland.  I am a US citizen, and have a tier 4 visa to study here.  I am funded on US loans (I know, I know).

I am approaching my 4th year- the write up year that I will need.  However, in order to get to the 4th year, I need to get my loans.  My supervisors are not willing to sign the paper that says I've made academic progress so I can get the loans- therefore no money and my fees will not be paid.

I am unsure what to do, as I have spent 3 years working on this, only to be told today ""I do not have a thesis.""  Granted, I did have some issues along the way; deaths in my family and the subsequent depression.  I only learned 2 months ago I could get support from the uni for the depression and have been working to get support I need.

If they won't sign, I obviously will have to leave the country.  This causes a lot of issues as I have a lease, bills, a flatmate, etc as I have been here for 4 years (I did a second Masters before the PhD).

I don't know what I am going to do as I don't have any family or friends that can take me in or pay for me to fly back to the US.  I'm terrified I will be unemployable as I've been doing this PhD for 3 years and will have nothing to show for it- the last time I was in the US I could only get a job in retail (I have a BA and 2 Masters degrees).

I understand and acknowledge the fact that the depression played a role in all of this, but I have been working as hard as I possibly can to do what is being asked of me, only to be told it is wrong and that I am not writing up to an academic level.

My supervisors are having me meet with the person who has been my convenor on Monday to get a third person's perspective; I've been living with this over my head for this whole month and it has been hard to focus when I am thinking of my lack of future.

Does anyone have any suggestions?",6,0,1762.23557329985,GradSchool
Can I get into Physics graduate program with a B.S. in Computer Science?,"This is my first reddit topic I've ever created, so hello everyone.  

I'm going to start off by saying my dream school is UC Berkeley, I'm currently 22 years old, and active-duty in the Air Force. I can get any public school paid for 100% by the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill, so money and opportunity costs are no object here. I want my education.

&nbsp;

So I'm currently pursuing a Computer Science Degree, I'm attempting to double major in CS and Physics, as most of the units are going towards both degrees right now anyway (Math: Calc 1, 2, Discreet Math, Linear Algebra; Phys: Fundamentals, Electromagnetics, etc.. 100 and 200 classes mainly).

&nbsp;

My classes for the time being are ONLINE ONLY. I do not have any excellent schooling options seeing as I'm bound to a location, work hours, and ""surprise"" deployments (1 - 6 months long) that are outside of my control. Online is the best I can do while I'm in the service, and waiting until I'm out is not an option.

&nbsp;

I have 4 years before my military service is up, I want to finish my Bachelors in CS before I'm out, as the undergrad courses are FAR more important in CS than graduate courses are in CS... 

A B.S. in Physics and an M.S. in CS (No BS in CS) would be a bad idea for me.  Most employers do not want someone with this background because they lack Undergraduate fundamentals for Computer Science; which could hurt a Computer Scientist's problem solving abilities tremendously.

&nbsp;

What I want to know is:

* Should I get the Bachelors in Physics at the risk of not finishing my B.S. in CS by the time my 4 years are up?

  I may not finish it anyway; but I'd probably only need a year of school more for one degree (should I not finish) versus probably needing two years to finish two degrees.

* If I get the degree in CS with a 3.8+ (shooting for 4.0+, but let's be realistic), can I still get into a top school such as Berkeley for their graduate program in Physics?

I am smart and very driven, I just want to know if it's at all possible given the type of degree I'm earning (Online B.S. for CS at some school that probably won't even be known by anyone at a top school) and the degree I want a Masters/PhD in, being Physics.

* If I double major, have a 3.8+, and still have a year or two left until I graduate by the time I'm out of the military; would I have any hope at transferring into Berkeley's (or any top school's) Undergraduate Program(s) for CS and/or Physics?

&nbsp;

Thanks for taking the time to read, I know it's a handful.. And I heard R1 Universities offer something like free grad programs; if anyone knows ANYTHING about this could you PLEASE give me information about it? It would be highly appreciated! Thank you so much!",14,0,1784.925226077628,GradSchool
Has anyone here completed a Master's by just scraping by?,I just started my MSc in Computer Science this September and I sort of just fell into it.  I'm not very interested in doing self directed computer science research but I also feel like if I quit I would be throwing away a very good opportunity.  Has anyone here been able to complete a MSc in a subject that you didn't find very interesting?  Should I just quit now and not waste everyone's time?,3,0,1800.1116265405908,GradSchool
Considering dropping out of grad school after one trimester,"I'm in the first trimester of a one year MA program in musicology and am considering dropping out. It sounds drastic, but I find I'm absolutely miserable here. This was something I thought I wanted to do since the end of college. I worked for a few years and now here I am, age 25. I got into a great program and moved out here to find that I was almost immediately disillusioned. I'm finding I simply have no patience for academia. I find myself rolling my eyes with ever utterance (sometimes even my own) of academic jargon. I'm doing fine in my classes, but every assignment is painful to complete. I've also made no friends, while my fellow students seem to be completely gung-ho about the program. What's more, I'm in a great relationship that I've made a long-distance relationship by coming out here, and it's taking its toll. My parents paid for this first trimester, and part of me is telling to finish the year out and at least I'll have a degree, but if I don't want a PhD anymore and don't know if I'd even use this MA for anything, should I just cut my losses now? I don't know how much more of this I can take.",3,0,1800.5574020035535,GradSchool
Ph.D. or M.D./Ph.D,"Dear /r/GradSchool,

I am a Junior at a liberal arts college who is majoring in chemistry.

My current plan entails attending a chemistry Ph.D. program that offers organic chemistry as a specialty, but also provides me avenues of conducting applied research. For example, materials science, sustainable energy, or polymer chemistry (these fields would still allow me to use organic chemistry and synthetic knowledge). The research I would conduct needs to be pertinent to the world around me and finalize in a product that is useful. Such research lends itself well to industry and would help me in my pursuit of an industrial career. In the worst case, I would 'master out' and assume a typical job in industry... provided I could even find such a position. Graduate school is a gamble, but I am confident that if I keep my head up and eyes open for opportunities that I could make the most of it and not be lost in the sea of Ph.D. students who cannot find a job after they graduate or get pigeonholed into a very specialized field of research that industry has no need for and thereby making me a poor candidate for their company.


Nevertheless, If I am going to be dedicating such a large portion of time toward my graduate education I began thinking, ""Why not go for an M.D./Ph.D.?"" For some fields of science, like microbiology, a M.D./Ph.D. makes since because with just the Ph.D the scope of your research would be limited. However, this may not be the case for chemistry. Also, an M.D./Ph.D. would provide me with a higher probability of obtaining a job after graduation compared to just a Ph.D. in chemistry, is this correct? If so, this is appealing to me. With only a Ph.D., correct me if I am wrong, but I would have to be very proactive and have to constantly fight to stay marketable to industry and government, in terms of being able to land a job in those sectors. This requires vast amounts of networking as well as acquiring skills that a graduate program may or may not provide. I know graduate schools are not profession schools--they do not train you for a specific career. However, since I know what I want from a Ph.D. program, I might be able to make the most out of it and succeed (by succeed I mean find a job in the private sector that enables me to live a comfortable life while at the same time allowing me to conduct research that is useful to the world around me).


If I choose to obtain an M.D./Ph.D., can the research I perform still have roots in organic chemistry/synthesis? Is it uncommon for individuals who are thinking about attending chemistry Ph.D. programs to go the M.D./Ph.D. route? What are some careers that this education path would provide me? Do you think it would be advisable for some who likes chemistry research, applied, to go into a M.D./Ph.D. program? What are some pros and cons?

Thank you very much for taking the time to read this post and well as providing any thoughts/advice.",8,0,1805.03526079985,GradSchool
"Need to make an admission application timeline, I already feel pressure.","I found a program I'm really excited about. The application deadline is January 10, 2015 for Fall 2015 starting date. The usual deliverables: application, letters of recommendation, transcripts, personal statement, and the dreaded GRE. The GRE is the biggest weight to contend with. My first master's didn't require it when I attended, I got in before it was required a few years later. Now, no such luck. I have test anxiety and don't know diddley about the math, so have to get a tutor and study and do a ton of practice tests to build my confidence. I'm afraid I can't get it all together by the deadline. Not to mention doing several informational interviews with grads in the industry. 

As a side note, I have a ton of other troubles, I need to just push them aside and stay focused on the career change. thanks for any advice/support/insight you can give.",1,0,1829.1148325591093,GradSchool
Which U.S. universities/Psychology Departments are conducting research on suicides?,"I'm a prospective grad student and suicide is my area of interest. To be more specific, i want to conduct research to understand the who dynamics of suicide, why that thought occurs in mind, what are the cultural/social/genetic factors. Where does suicide fit in the evolution of the brain/mind etc,.
So, if any of you are aware of any research oriented programs(Master's or Ph.D.) where i can pursue my interests, please inform me :)  
You could also suggest any appropriate forum where i can expect an answer for this question.",11,0,1831.7831427442945,GradSchool
What Grad Schools can i apply for doing a masters in artificial intelligence?,"Hey!

I am a student from India yearning to pursue my Masters in Computer Science ( in AI ) in the United States. 

I have scored 324 on my GRE ( Q168 V156 ) and 112 in my TOEFL. My GPA is a bit on the lower side - 7.7/10 ( roughly 3 on 4). 

I haven't done many research papers ( only one which is yet to be published ) but i have done quite a few projects - one of which was done for MHRD(Ministry Of Human Resource Development) and IIT-B. I have also won a hackathon for developing mobile apps organized by Freshdesk. 

I am currently learning Hadoop and other AI related stuff. Am also doing an internship in the same area.

So, which universities can i get admitted into? What are some safe, moderate and ambitious ones?
 
Thanks.",3,0,1844.1883279294798,GradSchool
Interested in applying for grad school,"Hi, I'm not sure if I'm in the right place and I apologize if I'm not.

I'm a senior year undergrad student majoring in neuroscience and minoring in chemistry right now.

Since my school came out with this major pretty recently, I decided to switch from chemistry to neuroscience and will be graduating a semester late. (graduating after fall semester of 2015)
I'm also trying to participate in some kind of internship/research during spring of 2016 before I start grad school.

I really want to pursue studying neuroscience at higher level, but I don't know anything about grad school or the process of preparing for one. 

Could anyone please give me a brief overview??

What could I be doing right now to improve myself and be more productive??

",4,0,1873.3579691331834,GradSchool
Finish PhD in 4 years after B.S. degree? (Materials Science and Engineering),"Hi, I was wondering if it is possible to finish a PhD in 4 years in the USA in ""Materials Science and Engineering"" straight from a B.S. degree in Chemistry?

I have been doing research for two years already and currently interning at the Lawrence Berkeley National Lab. I already have a 2nd author publication, so my research background is quite strong. I also already know what type of research I am passionate about and want to do.

Anyone was in a similar situation and was able to obtain their PhD in 4 years?",12,0,1905.6991496887388,GradSchool
I GOT IN!!! Now what? (online MS Healthcare Admin questions),"This morning I found out I was accepted to the only program I applied to. I am over the moon and so excited! 

I start in just a few weeks, and the program is entirely online (I live 3000 miles away from campus).

Do you have any advice for completing grad school completely online? Anything I should know about healthcare administration?

Any and all advice or tips are appreciated!",1,0,1956.9945663554058,GradSchool
My research is pointless,"Hi all,

I'll try to keep it short. I'm an undergrad in my last year. I changed my major to ecology two years ago, but I still do my research in paleontology. I have been working on my research independently for years. My research adviser is a very big name in the field, and is completely hands-off. He is excited about my research.

My adviser and I hope to discover why a certain glycogen-rich cell structure (astroglia-like) above the sacral spinal cord exists. It is present in birds, and in the same spot there is an enlargement in some/all dinosaurs. Nobody knows what it does. My adviser is convinced it's a second brain.

I compare the size of the sacral neural canal between species of dinosaurs. But, I have not made any progress in years. The CT-scanner I use is bad. There are not nearly enough specimens available, and no more than one per species, and often from different life stages. I do not have funding, nor do I want to apply for it as the project is a dead end and would take away funding from worthwhile projects. The adviser has no reason to believe it is a second brain. In fact, all existing literature (little) points against it. I am extremely frustrated, and don't want to continue this anymore. I want to do research in ecology, and I have an offer from a professor in a valuable, interesting field. However, I feel incompetent for wanting to quit.",9,0,1983.273270059109,GradSchool
Needing help to choose my Master,"Hello,
I am a current undergraduate student, my area of studies is Management Science and Technology at the best University of my country. I am a senior student and next year I am going to do my internship in sales or marketing. At 2015/2016 I plan to continue my studies to GradSchool, but I am not so sure about what I want to do. I mean I cannot choose if I am going to do a Master or a Phd, or if it is going to be at Europe or at USA. ( I am half european half American but I live in Europe). My grades are good but I do not have a big working experience and I am not sure about which field of economics is best for me. I am a very polite and communicative person. I like contact with people and I would like to have a job, where I will have to travel, to communicate with clients and I will meet new people. I want my job to be like 50% office work (or less) and 50% human contact.I also have to say that I speak 4 languages at a really good level (C2) and 2 others in a basic level (Greek, English,French,German and I am also learning Norweigian and Spanish). I also have to add that I have a 6 months work experience as a research assistant for a digital marketing project (I enjoy this work) and other 2 at a Supply Chain management project.What should I choose ?
Thanks so much for helping in advance",0,0,2009.5263719109612,GradSchool
Overview of M.A. in Digital Arts and Humanities at the University College Cork,,0,0,2042.2952376517019,GradSchool
"Desperately need a Letter of Rec, person not responding. Best way to handle this?","I am currently applying to Graduate School and I need a Letter of Rec. I have been trying to contact my teacher from last year. I did an internship for her and would love for her or someone else in the staff to give me a Letter of Rec. However I emailed her twice and got no response. I am unsure of the best way to handle this, should I call her, visit her during a class or contact someone else in the staff for a Letter of Rec? I was thinking of going to her class tomorrow and talking to her about it. It might be awkward and I want to handle it the best way possible.",5,0,2050.8379807072574,GradSchool
Accepted into dual masters in Latin American Studies and Information Science and need help.,"I’m providing some of my stats to help understand my situation.

-Graduating with BA – May 2014 (Major: History; Minor: Spanish)

-5 years experience as a clerk in two academic libraries

-1 summer experience as a clerk in a public library

-2 years experience working on major research projects focusing on Latin America.

-I mostly focus on U.S. Neoliberal economic policies in the region as well as CIA covert operations in the Southern Cone.

-High proficiency in grant writing. (I’ve been awarded multiple grant awards to continue my research).

-International Experience- 1 semester studying abroad in Buenos Aires, Argentina
			    -I’ll be traveling to Cuba to perform field research this May.

-Language proficiency- High academic proficiency in Spanish, both written and spoken.

-Internship experience- 
1 summer with an international non-profit as a logistics intern helping to organize an international conference for something like 1,500 people. Long story short, I had to figure out how to organize the travel intermarries of hundreds of people and feed over 500 staff for a week with a tiny budget. 

1 summer as an informatics/logistics intern with a U.S. federal organization focusing on Telehealth and the efficient organization of large amounts of patient data to make it more useful.

For the sake of staying anonymous, I’ll be omitting some information. I’ve been accepted into two separate masters’ degree programs at a major U.S. research university. The first is a MA in Latin American studies, and the second is a MS in Information Science from the department of library and info science in the school of informatics and computing. This university has a pretty cool program where I can take the two masters degrees and complete them simultaneously while doing fewer credits than doing them separately.

Here’s my dilemma. I can do the dual degree and come out with a MA in LAS and MS in IS, or I could do one or the other. I’m not interested in doing just the LAS degree, but I am considering doing just the IS degree.

From the copious amount of research I’ve been doing, it seems like the dual degree route is more geared towards becoming an academic librarian as it leaves less room for electives in informatics and computing.  I’m not against becoming an academic librarian, but the number of years I’ve worked in libraries has taught me how much and how rapidly the industry is changing. I don’t want to get a degree that is going to pigeon hole me into doing one job that may be drastically different in 10-20 years.  

Just going with the MSIS, I could specialize in data science or information architecture and take a variety of courses in metadata, database creation/maintenance, computer-human-interaction, web development and programming.
I love my research and have been doing it for a while, but when I see so many of my extremely capable professors working as low paid adjuncts  in a field where only 25% of people with terminal degrees actually find themselves in tenure track jobs, I feel like I do not want to focus on humanities research.

Nevertheless, besides my socioeconomic research in Latin America, I also have a high interest in data technology developments and research into database system efficiency. The Big Data explosion that we are currently experiencing fascinates me, and I want to be a part of the vanguard working to make that information more accessible and useable in the future. The internships I’ve done in logistics and data analysis have helped to foster this interest, and I’m seriously considering pursuing this field. I don’t have a ton of interest in programming, but I’ll have the opportunity to pick it up very soon.

The reality is that I don’t need a degree to continue researching Latin American issues. On the other hand, if I want to secure a sweet position in the exploding computing and information industry, I would need to focus on the MSIS.

I’m just getting a lot of different pieces of advice from professors that ranges from “the dual program will be great!,”, to “If you get both masters degrees and attempt to go on to a PhD later, they will question the nature of your focus”.
I just also wanted to note that the MSIS program is top ten in the U.S.A. if that means anything.

TLDR: I’m the first person in my family to get accepted into graduate school and I don’t know how to proceed.
",1,0,2060.046175151702,GradSchool
Has anyone here interviewed for the HST program at MIT/Harvard?,I have an interview coming up for it and was wondering if anyone here had any experience or advice on the interview experience/questions?,1,0,2067.8983047813317,GradSchool
Studying for GRE Quantitative Section,"For me, this is how it feels: 

http://youtu.be/qjOZtWZ56lc ",6,0,2083.810422836887,GradSchool
Considering quitting grad school to move to another program.,"I just started my Masters Program in San Francisco. Sadly, i am really reaching my limit with dealing with the externalities of trying to go to school here. Everything is ridiculously expensive and i culturally dont fit in here. It is making the already difficult work of grad school really basically impossible. I dont want to give up on grad school, i dont really like the experience but i really want my degree and i really want to teach and i think maybe a different place would be useful. The question is what happens if i quit at the end of the semester, how will other school view that? will my current professors give me recommendations? ",7,0,2154.8463371887387,GradSchool
Is grad school(master's degree) for me?,"Hi, I'm going to complete my undergrad soon and I'm going to start applying to colleges for a Master's program is Electrical Engineering. The thing is, I'm interested in lots of things like embedded systems, digital signal processing, electrical machines and stuff. But it seems to me that I will have to pick a specialization in my application. What advice would you give me? ",3,0,2158.455411262813,GradSchool
How badly will this C hurt my chances...?,"Will a c hurt my chances getting into grad school?
",9,0,2346.031661262813,GradSchool
Inquiring high school senior rushing to decide on an undergrad school that may effect future decisions for grad school.,"I am simply stuck between two completely different undergrad colleges in my state. One is a huge, well known school (PSU), and the other is a smaller yet much cheaper school in my home town.

**Background info:** At this point in my academic career, the only subject I really love to learn is English. All other subjects I can get good grades in and what not, but they bore the shit out of me. However, English along with psychology and possibly philosophy have always interested me. Specifically, I love to write. I'm sure every young adult at some point looks into their future and has some idea of what their ""dream job"" would be. For me, this would definitely be writing. Particularly, I see myself either writing books/short stories or writing movies like a screenwriter. Whatever it is, I know I would love to have a job writing someday. 

However, I'm not naive to the fact that becoming a writer for a career is quite unlikely in this day and age. It seems like most people just do it on the side, and if their work gets recognized somehow then they may pursue it from there. That is why I am pretty set on getting my BA in Secondary English Education, rather than just getting a degree in English or Creative Writing, simply because it's just more practical and I get to study English and writing while also being able to apply it to a job. Plus, from my personality I believe I would enjoy teaching.

So as I come closer to deciding on what college I want to attend, I am keeping a few things in mind: 

* Financials - PSU obviously is very expensive, and luckily my local school is completely free for me which is a HUGE plus. However, it doesn't have nearly the networking possibilities as Penn State. 

* Experience/enjoyment - To be honest, I would love to go to a school like PSU for the overall atmosphere and college experience. In other words, I would have a hell of a time and meet so many people. As any college student, I want to have fun and gain a lot of life experience (this also helps me as a writer because what else do we have to write off of other than our experiences in life?) At my hometown college, I would not get that same experience seeing as how my parents would make me commute at least the first year, and then I would most likely get an apartment with some buddies after that. On the other hand, I WOULD be able to exploit some opportunities such as studying abroad at places like London and Ireland, as it would be much more affordable. This also could be a good chance for me to get the ""life experience"" I'm looking for.

As for the education itself, I have heard some really good things about my local school's teaching program. Some even say it's just as good as Penn State's. Really the only difference is the experience and networking possibilities that a big school like PSU has to offer me (which from what I've heard, gets you a long way nowadays).

I posted this in the grad school subreddit because I believe you guys will have the most insight on my main questions. As of right now, I think someday I would like to attend grad school to possibly get my masters in creative writing/screenwriting. Any answers for the following questions would be quite helpful.

* Would a masters degree in this subject be worthwhile for me based on my aspirations? 

* How difficult would it be for me to obtain a job in this field post graduation? Should I just stick to teaching?

* Does the undergraduate school you attend have a significant impact in terms of getting into a top grad school? Or does the GPA matter more? 

Penn State is clearly a better school, but it is much bigger and I may struggle to get an outstanding GPA, whereas at a smaller school I could probably manage to get at least a 3.8-4.0. But then again, the classes may not be quite as respected as Penn State's, so I'm not sure how that would be gauged. 

Basically I am stuck because although I like the idea of grad school now, how can I be sure that I'll still want to go through more schooling when I graduate from college? If I end up not wanting to, then I may regret not going to the bigger school and getting all the experience and networking possibilities it has to offer. But on the other hand, if I go to PSU, graduate, and find out that to actually have a realistic shot of becoming a successful writer I will have to go to grad school, I could definitely end up regretting spending all the money on my undergrad degree when in the end it didn't really even have a significant importance. 

So for any college students or writers who've had similar experiences, or anyone who has any good insight in general, your input is well appreciated and respected. This so far is by far the hardest decision of my life. I feel as if two roads are ahead of me leading into completely different directions. It's definitely difficult to make the decision on my own.

One last thing: Due to my brother recently passing away, I have quite a bit of extra money in my name from his life insurance. Let's just say it's enough to cover college. I am a little reluctant to say this though, because I don't want people to think that because of this that I automatically should go with the more prestigious school. Although I could put it to good use for that, I could also benefit from it in other ways such as using it for grad school (that way I would have nearly no loans to pay through my undergrad and grad school), a down payment for a house someday, or I could even take a few years off after undergrad and travel to different places to get even more life experience for going back to school. I just want to use it in the most beneficial way possible for me. I certainly don't want to spend it on something just because I can. But if using it for an expensive school is my best option, I would not be hesitant to use it for that. And please, don't think I'm lucky for having this extra money. Although it's nice to have, I received it the most bitter way possible and I would trade it back in a heartbeat. 

Other irrelevant facts:
 
* The local college I have been referring to is Lock Haven University
* If for some reason I decide writing isn't my thing, I've also thought about getting a masters in Higher Administration

**TL;DR** I love the subject of English, particularly writing. I have a distant dream of becoming an author or a screenwriter someday. However, it is a risky field and I have a backup plan of becoming a teacher/professor, which I also think I would enjoy. But I'm struggling to make a decision of which college I want to attend. I have two options: I could go to a small, local university with an excellent Education program (English) for free, and as a result have the opportunity to study and travel abroad, save a bunch of money, and go to grad school to pursue my dreams as a writer, but at the same time not meet many people (at least in America) and also feel left out on the real college experience OR I could go to a much larger and more prestigious school, Penn State, and get mostly the same education, but I would meet tons of people, network myself much better through professors and alumni (which could be very helpful to get recognition as a writer), and ultimately have a kick ass time in college - but at a large price. 

Sorry for the shitty tl;dr, hard to cover everything with just that. It's also getting late and I'm burning out, so you may just have to skim through everything to get the main gist. Thanks for reading and any advise is appreciated! ",7,0,2370.7789066331834,GradSchool
"MRW someone in my family says ""You're coming down with a cold, you shouldn't go to lab today.""",,0,0,2410.27051542948,GradSchool
I find it hard to read articles which aren't in PDF format,does anyone else have this problem or is it just me?,3,0,2442.820341818369,GradSchool
Graduate level Statistics: how important is this class?,So I didn't do so well in my graduate level statistics class. How important is this class for things like research and data mining?,9,0,2472.99551542948,GradSchool
GRE Quantitative Score - Do I need to take it again?,"Hey everyone, this is my first post to reddit ever! 
I just took the GRE, and my quantitative score is a 151 (48 percentile). I am applying to MPH programs at Emory Rollins, Boston University, Columbia and Yale. Do I need to take it again in hopes of a better score?  I would have to send in the scores after some of the deadlines have passed. 
Also, during college, I got Bs (one C, sigh) in math classes for the most part, if that helps paint a broader picture of my academic skillzzz. 

Thanks! :D",4,0,2498.231869596146,GradSchool
What's the deal with resident/nonresident tuition rates at the graduate level (US)?,"I'm looking at MS programs, and some schools indicate that graduate students are automatically granted resident status, but others are showing the standard resident/nonresident split.  From my small sample so far, I'm not sure which model is more typical.  Should I generally expect to pay out-of-state tuition as a graduate student (assuming that I, like most graduate students, study outside my current state)?      ",18,0,2536.722332559109,GradSchool
MBA fellowship programs,"Hey, does anyone know of any MBA programs that offer Fellowships and Scholarships??",0,0,2545.8832932072573,GradSchool
"Having spent time in advanced school, do you ever hear anything that makes you stop and think ""...Seriously? ಠ_ಠ""","A bit of a random question, but I really just couldn't help this one.  I'm wondering if anyone else out there overhears conversations that prompt them into wanting to either laugh or just stare questioningly?

I was standing in the gym change room the other day when I overheard people the next aisle over talking about cancer.  So, I thought, yeah, ok, random cell mutation that wasn't controlled and now is not exactly playing nicely with all the other ""you"" cells.  But, no, the conversation goes, ""I really do believe that cancer is connected to hating life.  My uncle's friend had it and, you know, he didn't live a healthy life style.  He was just really angry all the time.""

...Really? ಠ_ಠ

Do you guys have any similar stories?",21,0,2717.9009668183685,GradSchool
What They Don't Tell You at Graduation  - worth a read if you're graduating soon,,1,0,2725.460434410961,GradSchool
Grad School Is A Killer,,0,0,2735.1763834850353,GradSchool
"I thought you guys might be interested in this, it's a subreddit I created where you can post seminal articles of science! ","http://www.reddit.com/r/ClassicScience/

Here you can post articles that were paradigm shifters in their time.

Feel free to post anything from Galen to Darwin to Einstein....etc...",0,0,2755.6856658924426,GradSchool
No Time for Smiles,,0,0,2766.306962188739,GradSchool
do I stand a chance?,"I know that ya'll are sick of answering questions about this subject but since you made it into grad school, you are still probably the best people to ask.  I am trying to get into  a pretty competitive international relations MA program and I'm wondering how competitive I am.
GRE: Verbal, 165 Quant, 155 Anylitical, 5.5
GPA: 3.46
Experience working and studying in Middle East (area of interest)
Good recs and statement of purpose,
anyway, I just submitted and now I'm going through the waiting phase... ",11,0,2778.3122168183686,GradSchool
Best places to live in U.S. for maximum Graduate School opportunities?,"Ahoy Reddit,

I recently left my job following my mom’s death in July to spend a month in Greece with my wife and her family. My wife and I currently live in Vermont with my sister in her house but want to move out on to start our own lives. When we return from Greece in October, my wife and I are looking to relocate out of Vermont for another State/City with the best array of grad school programs in terms of quality and selection.  We haven’t decided on where to move or an exact grad school and program for future study. So I need your advice to help us decide. Vermont’s beautiful but career and educational opportunities are limited.  I’ve saved a lot of money so I’m not too concerned with relocation expenses.  I would like to be living in an area with access to a wide variety of good grad school programs in the following fields:

* Art
* Graphic Design
* Interactive Design
* Game Design
* Entrepreneurship
* Product Design / Development
* Marketing
* Digital Marketing
* Advertising
* MBA
* Sustainability
 
As you can tell, I haven’t decided on which grad program to pursue quite yet.  We would like to move to an area where we are well positioned for future graduate studies.  I’m going into one of these fields.  But I’m not sure quite yet which one.   I need to learn which City/State offers the best possibilities for quality program study in these fields.

",11,0,2936.2982932072573,GradSchool
Cultural problems,"As many grad schools in the USA have many people from other countries, how have you dealt with cultural things that aren't really acceptable in the US?

I don't want to appear rude and I know that some cultures don't chew with their mouth closed but  this guys food slurps around his mouth while he eats across from me every day...

What is the moral thing to do? let someone continue a behavior that is not just annoying but could effect his social outlook in the states OR just ignore it, eat somewhere  else and not care. Is telling them so rude or morally wrong that it out weighs the possible negative consequences of letting them continue. See, I don't know... He has been in America for about a week.",19,3,50.08723996651669,GradSchool
How can I push myself through grad school with zero motivation?,"I'm going soon & like the title says, I have no motivation to go. I can't even really imagine succeeding to be honest, but how can get through grad school when I'm so unmotivated.",27,0,59.36590894799818,GradSchool
"Does anyone use a fundraising (patreon, gofundme, etc.) site for projects?",I have a project which is minimally funded and I would like to create a way for people to make small contributions that I could use for consumables and other supplies. Anyone manage something like this?,2,2,66.3664297813315,GradSchool
Why does my PI do this?,"She is my masters PI. I had a presentation and after I was done she kept mentioning how good it was afternoon how good I am. During lab meetings and presentations from other students, I asaask questions and recently she started to encourage me to keep asking hard and thinking questions and even compared me to the post doc. She says I understand my project really well anaand says she trusts me more than her other students for getting things done on time. I just feel like it's all lies. My PI in my undergrad never said anything like this. He would compare me to other students and point out how I'm shit. I never heard anything good. I was just told I was annoying.  I feel like she is making it up. I feel like I'm lying to her. I don't see how anything I do is any different than other students. I just feel it's all lies and I feel bad. ",3,0,491.32215894799816,GradSchool
Thesis acknowledgement section,"Thought I would have some fun with the acknowledgement section in my thesis... Was kinda scared, so finally decided to go with the less extreme version of it... :\-D

[Acknowledgement section of my thesis](https://i.redd.it/mth0w1415p211.jpg)",0,0,494.81382561466484,GradSchool
It’s time we embraced the truth about Grad School,,1,2,602.7428649665167,GradSchool
Can I call my grad school alma mater?,"I am going to earn my Master’s and PhD degree at my grad school. But an acquaintance around me said “even if you graduate that school, it’s not your alma mater. You can call only the school where you got Bachelor’s degree alma mater. Wherever you will get your PhD degree, you are just a graduate of your low-ranked undegrad school.”
I donno why she said this to me, probably because her bf who studied at a prestigious undergrad school failed to get into a grad school as good as where I am going to study.
So this got me to wonder if I can call my grad school alma mater after my graduation?",9,3,632.3761057072575,GradSchool
Should I go to grad school?,"I've googled the question and searched this question in this subreddit. But I'm asking anyway, because I have no idea what to do.

I'm in Canada (so, going to school is much less expensive than in the US). I have a bachelors degree with a joint major in Mathematics and Computer Science. I studied those subjects because they were interesting and, as a bonus, I was told that people with STEM degrees get high-paying jobs. But I've struggled to find work, in spite of living in a fairly big urban area. I'm currently working in a minimum wage retail job with other odd jobs on the side, and taking part-time courses in art and animation, something I've wanted to do for a long time. But I'm wondering whether, either now or in the future, it would be a good idea for me to go to graduate school in something related to my degree.

**PRO**

- I had good grades and fairly good transcripts, and I'm generally a good student. I enjoyed going to school.

- The prospect of being a TA or TM is appealing to me. I've never been a TA before, but I have tutored and the idea of running a seminar or tutorial seems like a natural fit for me.

- I get the sense that grad students get swamped with a lot of reading, writing, and exams. I love reading, I love writing, and I've never had trouble with exams (yet).

- I love reading nonfiction books and textbooks in the subjects that interest me, and one of my crazy dreams would be to write books like that. In my experience, most of the authors of the books and blogs I enjoy tend to be people with graduate degrees in their field.

- Of the friends I have who have graduate degrees and have worked in academia, none of them seem to regret their decision (a couple of them will make jokes about how hard it is, but they're still doing work that they care about).

- I love learning and engaging with ideas. The thought of spending my life post-bachelors-degree in jobs where I'm not exploring interesting ideas and learning new things makes makes me shudder.

- The fields I'm interested in (mathematics, computer science, economics) seem to have statistically high-paying masters degrees. Money is not my primary reason for considering grad school (see previous point re: learning and engaging with ideas) but it seems like it might be worth considering.

- I haven't been able to find a job, as I mentioned. I'm starting to think that, on some level, when I look at (for example) the programming jobs available to me, the reason I don't get them is because employers know that I'm not enthusiastic about them, and there are plenty of people out there who *are* enthusiastic about those jobs. (Like, I could probably learn Node.js if I spent some time on it, but that doesn't sound like a fulfilling use of my time -- whereas, for someone else, maybe it is.) I think academia might be the area of my comparative advantage -- that is to say, there's a chance I would be unhappy doing anything else.

- It just feels right, in some weird and vague gut-feeling kind of way. Like, when I think of doing other non-academic things, a part of me goes ""What are you doing? Why are you denying the obvious path? You'd be excellent at teaching and research. You're inquisitive. You're a good writer. You care about learning and researching the answers to interesting questions. You *belong* in academia."" I know that's stupid and silly, but that's a part of my thinking.

**CON**

- I'm worried that I'm jumping from one thing to another without really having a long-term plan of any kind. Sure, I say I want to go to grad school now, but how will I feel a year from now? Will I chicken out and run back to retail and taking animation courses? Note that I listed three different possible fields of interest (mathematics, computer science, economics). If I can't choose a field, what makes me think I'll be able to choose one topic to focus on when I have to write a PhD thesis? I mean, I can think of topics in each of those fields that I could imagine spending a lot of time focusing on and researching because of how amazingly cool they are, but how do I know I won't get cold feet when I actually have to make a decision? (I guess what I tell myself is, there exist people who get a Masters in more than one field, and just because I'm committing to focusing on one topic for a few years, doesn't mean I'm signing my soul away for the rest of my life. But if I'm not committed to spending the rest of my life on one topic, then am I really committed enough to be in academia in the first place? Or is it just [""the spirit of why not"", as /u/noveltfjord points out in a comment?](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/1l144m/should_i_apply_for_grad_school/cbwxjay))

- Graduate school is not for the weak. If I can't find a job in my field with a bachelors degree, what makes me think I have what it takes to go through grad school, and what makes me think that my job prospects would be any better afterwards?

- In every article Google gives me when I type in ""should I go to grad school"" the answer ends up being ""almost certainly not"". The advice seems to be, if I can think of literally anything else in the world that would make me happy, I should do that instead. But I'm not sure what that would be.

- I have anxious and depressive tendencies. This never caused me to fail a course in my undergraduate years, but there were a few times when I withdrew from a course early in the semester because I was pretty sure I couldn't handle it. I think that I know myself better now and I can handle challenges slightly better, I have a network of people who care about me, and when I've gotten better at telling people when I'm having difficulties rather than just pretending everything's fine and ruminating on my own dark thoughts. But even though I *seem* to have myself under control, it seems like something worth keeping in mind.

- Note that the question I'm asking is ""Should I go to grad school?"" and not ""Would grad school help achieve goal X?"" I'm not 100% sure what my goals are, and spending time in school probably won't fix that. I don't *know* if I'd be a good researcher, or professor, or analyst for a private company, because I haven't had the chance to do any of those thing yet. Why should I commit to something if it won't help my long-term goals, since I'm not sure what they are? (Although by that reason, I shouldn't commit to *anything* until I have a complete understanding of all my goals in life. But since that's not going to happen, what am I supposed to do? Just roll over and die -- or, worse, stay in retail for the rest of my life?)

That is my muddled thinking right now. I am posting this out of frustration and confusion, with the hope that these are all things you've seen before, and that by vomiting a crude plea for help onto Reddit, I might be able to get your help in clarifying my decision.

EDIT: If your prognosis is ""Don't do it"", I would appreciate some idea of what you think I *should* be doing given my skills and preferences. Because so far, the alternative for me is retail work forever.",24,0,872.1242538554055,GradSchool
Was anyone never socially accepted in their program or school?,"After recently dropping out of grad school I come to the realization that I was never really ""accepted"" in my program or even the university.

I applied to three programs since I was out of work for a few years and thought grad school would be a good way to get back into the real world. Got denied from 1 program, 1 was a safety and the other 1 accepted me. At first I was so excited since I wanted to go to this school forever and while the program was not the greatest, I thought I could make it work.

So I go to orientation and that day I just realize that this is not good. The teachers felt aggressive in trying to get us to socialize in trying to invite us to bars without even knowing them or come to their club. Im sitting there thinking ""I havent even taken a course with you yet or even understand what I got accepted into"" so to me its just all kind of weird.

Then I meet my advisor. I knew this guy was going to be trouble when I signed up for classes and he says ""oh you need to sign up for my class first, you have to take it your first semester"". Later I found out that was a lie and I took his course with another teacher right before dropping out. 

Then there was the classes. My classmates were pretty strange. Most of the people in the program were standoffish and acted like they didnt wanna be there. I was one of the few people ever asking questions and when I did ask questions, I would get this look like ""wtf is wrong with this guy"". What was worst was that the class I had with my advisor, the guy would start yelling at us when we would ask questions and would always say ""any more questions?!"" after yelling at us. This shit just started making zero sense to me. I dropped this guys course after we had a meeting and he just started yelling at me again when I told him ""ya know, this stuff might not be for me"". He started calling me lazy and all this other crap for no reason.

I took another course the first semester and just got misled on a project I had to do. My project was to make an instructional plan. I picked to do on how to play Magic the Gathering. This project I wanted to dump at a point since I never knew how complex Magic was and I wasnt getting anywhere on it. My teacher would just say ""oh no you can do this, you dont need to dump it"" when I already had a dozen other simpler ideas.  In the end of that course, I not only got a low grade, but when I asked this teacher to be my new advisor due to me not getting along with the other guy, he was nowhere to be found. Wouldnt answer emails until recently to where I had to email him 3 times for just a response.

Then theres the undergrads. I really did not feel in touch with most of the people at this school. Everyone just wants to party all the time and nothing more. Lots of greek life that isnt inclusive and everyone else felt sheltered and not knowing wtf they like doing with their lives. Im at the age to where I like to have fun, but not doing that 24/7. And then theres being a part of the university in itself. I tried joining clubs, too many people were too obsessive about what their clubs they were part of.  I wasnt interesting in hanging out with diehard people about things. I experienced too much in life bad things hanging out with obsessive people and I wasnt about to get back into that.

I also tried applying to jobs at the university. Too many jobs with too much bureaucracy, not enough pay and they wouldnt even consider me since I was only a part time student. The grad school also lied about there being tuition waiver opportunities for masters students. In orientation they acted like there was so much stuff out there. I talked to alot of different departments on campus just to get the run around and be told to look elsewhere. Also the surrounding city I was in was very rural and didnt have much of an economy out of the school, so I been broke as a result.

Overall, while I got a paper letter that says I been accepted to this school, I never really was. It was like they just took my money and after that it just didnt matter to them anymore what my happiness was. I tried my best to find things on my own, but in the end it just led to tearing up my self-esteem. In my world this school never accepted me and I dont see myself ever seeing the school the same way before I accepted.",31,0,881.8023325591092,GradSchool
"An ""Alternative"" Scientific Career",,5,1,1030.351499225776,GradSchool
Sad - can't ever compete for scholarships. [rant/sad],"I never win big scholarships like OGS/NSERC. I just started a PhD (stem) and have one publication from my previous MSc thesis. Yet, for OGS and NSERC applications (not even considering Vanier at this point cause hell knows I'd never win that), I don't even pass the first round (department reviews). I win other awards, I participate in grad societies and community programs, I write well (or I used to think I did considering I win awards for my speech presentations). I've also only done poster presentations for which I've won prizes for (BUT NEVER FIRST PLACE! ALWAYS SECOND)!.
I don't understand what I am doing wrong! I do my applications on time, I go over them like crazy, I edit and re-edit. Do people win with no publications/no conference talks and if so how? 
I am asking my department for feedback because I keep on getting rejected and I don't know why - other people who win seem to have multiple publications/are not first years in the PhD/their research contributes directly to humans/medicine. My research is species evolution, not even conservation based but I try to make it so it can appeal to a larger audience. Ugh. I really feel like garbage since I can't pass the departmental review stage. Rant over. :( 
",13,2,1097.0183047813314,GradSchool
Is teaching yourself how to use statistical software something that's expected in grad school?,"I'm in my first year of a professional master's program. I'm taking econ, stats, etc, and two of my classes require us to use a statistical package. We use SAS and Stata.

But I have never used SAS or Stata, and we have no course materials on SAS or Stata. For SAS, we had a session with the TA where she ran through a couple of basic things, but admitted that she didn't understand some other things, and we didn't cover those. We also didn't have any basic foundational stuff (i.e. I still don't know 95% of the SAS commands). I still don't really know how to do basic statistics with SAS. I'm not alone. My cohort has kicked around the idea of chartering a private SAS class from our university.

I haven't had any Stata stuff at all. No books, no handouts, no videos, no informational sessions. Nothing. I have to use it in class next week for a grade that's going to count for a hefty percentage of my grade.

I know I'm used to undergrad, and maybe things are different in grad school, but I kind of feel like I've gotten a raw deal. I want to learn these things, but my courses have not provided the means to learn them. I feel like that's part of the basic course contract; you provide the stuff I need to learn, I learn it, and that's our dynamic.

Am I wrong?

Edit: my perspective is that this is not a PhD program; I'm paying, and I'm the customer. If they aren't providing or even recommending the materials for me to complete the assignments, they are shortchanging me of something I have paid for.",69,1,1109.0453533924426,GradSchool
Admissions considering my GRE scores expired before they officially expire. What can I do?,"I took the GRE back on 11/22/2010 and with a 5 year deadline they would have expired on 11/22/2015. I contacted ETS about their score reporting policy and they explained that they consider the official GRE scores sent to admissions valid for transmission to an institution. The basis of this is that they do not consider scores expired until after June 30 of that school year (6/30/2016 in my case).


The university responded and said they consider the scores have expired as of September 2015 due to their own internal policy. 


It is worth mentioning that I spoke with the director of the program that I am applying to in March 2016 and she explained my scores are high enough they would probably accept them even if they were expired.


I am not sure how to proceed. Worst case scenario, I can retake the GREs. But I would like to have these scores considered with my application. My thoughts on next steps are to contact the same program director and explain the situation to see if she will override the department policy in my case. Thanks for any and all advice!",9,2,1244.3161172813316,GradSchool
"Oh god, I'm applying to grad school. Cover letter critique needed. Computer science letter.","A hallmark trait of any successful software engineer is the drive to self-learn. No successful programmer will be able to continually develop their craft if they are unable, or unwilling, to study topics on their own time. 

I graduated from Moravian College in 2012, with a Bachelor’s of Science in Neuroscience. Since graduating, I have studied an undergraduate degree’s worth of computer science and programming courses. Using open courseware, such as coursera.com, Udemy.com, MIT Open Courseware, and other credible online sources, I have b uilt up my programming and computer science skills, while still continuing with my self-education in biological research. 

Georgia Tech’s online Masters program is a perfect fit for me. With coursework that capitalizes on topics I have studied, and projects that will help me hone my programming skills, I am very excited to continue learning in a more formalized setting! There is nothing I would more enjoy at this time in my life than to be with other students who are interested in the same program as I am, and be mentored by professors who are energetic about teaching in their field. I searched through a number of other online computer science programs, but I do not think their coursework affords me the skillset I would like to develop. Many programs are more focused on information technology and security, rather than providing a solid track in software engineering or computing. With the course offerings and value that Georgia Tech offers, it is truly my top choice in continuing my education. 

During the past two years, I have taught myself basic and advanced computer science concepts. Topics I studied include logic, algorithms, cryptography, data structures, databases, computer networks, operating systems, computer architecture, software engineering, and software debugging. I taught myself to program in the following computer languages: HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Python and Java. Learning all of these topics on my own taught me better time management, dedication, and drive, while also teaching me where to find answers to questions I have. I had to seek out professionals that I knew in the software field, while also reaching out to strangers on online forums and various websites. In doing so, I have developed connections in the field I want to go into, while also being able to give back to communities that helped me when I was able to answer others’ questions. 

I completed an internship in software engineering, honing my programming skills and filling in any knowledge gaps I had. During the internship, I learned more about relational databases and SQL concepts when helping the other developers maintain their client database. I used HTML/CSS and JavaScript to develop and maintain a software company website, as well as create web-based client documentation that was sold with the software. I learned to coordinate with a software development team and to I believe that having completed this internship has given me an even stronger foundation to do well in this Master’s program. 

Collaborating with a neuroscience professor, I am creating SQL databases comparing genetic homologs between various organisms, including humans, dolphins, mice, and C. elegans. The goal of this project is to determine when and where organisms have diverged and converged evolutionarily, as a means of provide evolutionary genetic insight into the development of the brain. Having a masters in computer science would afford me more skills in being able to create not only better databases, but also understanding concepts underlying programs that could make more insightful comparisons, and perhaps providing other pieces of important information. 

During my career development, I have found myself being pulled in the direction of software engineering. My undergraduate degree in neuroscience has helped me in learning computer science by training me how to approach complex subjects in pieces, and learning how to learn. Eventually, I want to earn my PhD in computational neuroscience, so having a masters in computer science coupled with my undergraduate degree in neuroscience gives me the best foundation I can get before beginning my PhD program. 

In looking through the program’s coursework, I recognize many topics that I have studied or have been exposed to. I am excited to take on the challenges of this program starting in Fall 2016. Having a Master’s degree from Georgia Tech in computer science will afford me the extended skills and credibility that will make me more marketable when I begin seeking programming employment positions, and will also provide me a base in the event that I choose to continue my graduate education and earn a PhD in computational neuroscience. 

Thank you,
",7,0,1343.866371910961,GradSchool
"Applying to a masters program in computer science, need a cover letter critique","Dear god, I'am applying to Georgia Tech's online MS program in computer science. I'm so nervous about my cover letter, so I'm looking for anyone who wants to critique it. 

Here goes:

So, I'm applying to Georgia Tech's online MS program in computer science. I wrote a personal statement/cover letter, but I have been out of school for a few years and I'm so nervous.

Critiques, please!!

A hallmark trait of any successful software engineer is the drive to self-learn. No successful programmer will be able to continually develop their craft if they are unable, or unwilling, to study topics on their own time. 

I graduated from Moravian College in 2012, with a Bachelor’s of Science in Neuroscience. Since graduating, I have studied an undergraduate degree’s worth of computer science and programming courses.  Using open courseware, such as coursera.com, Udemy.com, MIT Open Courseware, and other credible online sources, I have built up my programming skills. I realize that not having a formal education may seem insufficient, but my drive and dedication to give myself an education should more than make up for the formalities of a brick-and-mortar institutional education. An online Master’s program in computer science will more than understand that an online education can be comparable to an “in-person” education, especially if the student is driven, as I am.  

During the past two years, I have taught myself basic and advanced computer science concepts. Topics I studied include logic, algorithms, cryptography, data structures, databases, computer networks, operating systems, computer architecture, software engineering, and software debugging. I taught myself to program in the following computer languages: HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Python and Java. I also learned some SQL, both in-class and as part of a previous employment position. 

I have also completed an internship in software engineering, honing my programming skills and filling in any knowledge gaps I might have had. During the internship, I learned more about relational databases and SQL concepts, web development, and using HTML/CSS and JavaScript to develop and maintain a software company website. I also learned to work with a software development team and use Java to develop business software packages that were sold to clients. I believe that having completed this internship has given me an even stronger foundation to do well in this Master’s program. 

During my career development, I have found myself being pulled in the direction of software engineering. The challenge and continual evolution of the field are exactly what draws me in. Knowing that there is always much to learn, and that there is no cap on the knowledge base, drives me to continue on in the field. 

In looking through the program’s coursework, I recognize many topics that I have studied or have been exposed to. I do feel prepared to take on the challenge of this program, and hope that you will allow me to. Having a Master’s degree in computer science will afford me the extended skills and credibility that will make me more marketable when I begin seeking programming employment positions. 

Thank you,
xxx name",4,2,1398.161811725776,GradSchool
My adviser just got promoted to full professor? Is it weird that I'm excited too?,"Don't know why I'm so excited, but is this good or bad for me as a grad student?",4,3,1426.8104459850351,GradSchool
2016 Master of Economics Rankings,,0,0,1434.9178533924426,GradSchool
The GRE is behind me,"Thank goodness.. this was the worst. My scores are alright. Solid. Not perfect or exceptional, but good enough to have my application looked at all of the schools I'm applying to. 

Now to finish off my MA and the rest of the application process for PhDs. 

I just needed to get this off my chest. 

(For those curious about how I studied for the test: I spent a week going through all of the Kaplan books + the ETS guide. I did 4 practice tests - not the best strategy; merely good enough). ",7,0,1440.4872978368871,GradSchool
Rising undergrad freshman with some concerns...,"I'm a rising freshman at the University of California, Berkeley hoping to major in CS.

Quick context: Berkeley does this dumb shit where they only take in kids into the CS major with a 3.3 GPA (which is a pretty good technical GPA) in the 3 main prereq courses. If I don't manage to get into the CS major, I would probably major in CogSci with a CS minor, physics, or applied math. My career goals involve being a professor or a programmer.

So let's get to the meat of what I want to know...

1. Berkeley is infamous for grade deflation. Do grad schools take these into account?
2. How difficult would it be to major in something in like physics/applied math/cognitive science and pursue graduate school in CS at a top school (Berkeley, MIT, Stanford, etc). *Does the fact that I majored in something not CS impact my ability to get into a top tier CS grad program?*
3. How difficult would it be to get into an MBA program with a CS BA? Like would I have to take business courses as an undergrad or will they let me straight into the grad school no problemo?
4. Where can I find stuff like average GRE, GPA, etc for grad programs?",9,0,1575.3281658924427,GradSchool
"Advisor treating me different than rest of students in research group, is the writing on the wall?","My first advisor left my current institution after my first year.  So I jumped on board with a new faculty candidate -- largely because I have grant money and didn't need any money from my advisor for a year and there was no other faculty that was remotely interested in what I am.

However, talking with other students in the group, I am treated drastically different.  Most of the other students are getting hounded to get things done (read 3:00 am emails, texts, expectations to work on the weekends, wanting constant updates, etc).  I am getting none of that.  In fact I could easily go a full week without ever making contact with my advisor if I didn't initiate.

I do know that I put >= 50 hours/week in on research work and most of the other students only put in about 20-30.

Is the writing on the wall?  Is it worth my time to attempt my Ph.D. under this advisor at this institution?  Should I just Master out and move one?  Or am I being too fickle and reading too much into this?

===Edit===

I am about to finish my second year with 0 papers published.  My first year was all course work.  During that summer, I made great progress at getting a paper, but my advisor left for another institution and I didn't see the purpose in moving with him with such a short relationship.",5,2,1615.2871936702204,GradSchool
How bad is TAing? Seriously.,"I'm starting a master's program in the fall and part of my funding is to TA undergraduate students. How bad is this task? 

Like for real. 

",39,2,1653.145700614665,GradSchool
How to solve my ethical issue?,"Hi,
I am about to embark on doing my master's thesis. I am compiling the research proposal at this moment. I have one huge ethical issue however:

My resarch is intended to help and enhance the communication abilities of progressive political organisations and movements (think a consumer protection NGO or Occupy Wallstreet). Yet, theoretically it could also be used by anyone... say, the Tea Party movement. 

This makes me afraid and I dont know how to solve this issue. What if my research ended up hurting progressive organisations because their best-practice would not only be tranferred to less successful progressive NGOs, but also to reactionary movements like the Tea Party or some evil industry-sponsered NGO?

What do you think of such ethical issues where research results could be used by any side? Is there any way to restrict contribution or anything? How do I make sure my results are used by the right people, not the wrong ones?

This must be a common issue but I couldnt find anything about it in my or other universities' ethical guidelines.

PS: English's not my first language, so sorry for any mistakes :)


________________________________
Edit: I get you guys. My thinking was wrong from an academic point of view. So I ll do the master thesis as planned... but I am not an academic. I do care about these things and I do think certain stuff shouldnt or shouldnt have been researched. If you disentagle the possible results from the research, you get mindless and unethical, no matter how many ethical guide books the academic world will adhere to. It's like... hey let's research how to kill the world's population in just one month... just as a disaster precaution thing of course, and it totally cant be used by anyone to make that actually happen.

But as it makes no sense to argue against what has been internationally established I will just go ahead, finish my master's and then say goodbye to academia.",18,0,1743.3247168183686,GradSchool
Being a TA sucks.,"Does anybody else just hate being a TA? Everything from running tutorials and labs to office hours, marking, exam supervision, etc. I just feel like it's a massive waste of my time and sorry for sounding like a bastard, but I literally couldn't care less about 99% of my students. I just do it to for the money because it's the only thing keeping me afloat. Anybody else feel this way? Did anybody ever manage to wean off the TA funding and onto some other source that was a reasonable alternative?",12,3,1794.819774688739,GradSchool
My feelings about the undergrads whose exams I'm grading,,1,0,1823.8204459850353,GradSchool
Just wondering what kind of recognition a grad student gets for his/her work that 'immediately' leads to a Nobel Prize or any other significant award for their advisor..,,7,0,1849.5194043183687,GradSchool
Graduate School ... decisions...decisions...decisions...,"Greetings All,
 
I am attending Graduate School for a Masters Degree in Biology or Biotech this Fall (depending on which program accepts me and I, in turn, accept). So far, I've been accepted to NYU, Queens College, and LIU Post (MS in Biomedical Science). The areas of Biology that most interest me are Molecular Bio, Stem/Developmental Bio, Immunology , and Epigenetics. I am planning to get a job after the completion of the Masters Degree (knock on wood!). I am hoping for any advise regarding the following questions (or any portion thereof):
 
1) My first question relates to the reputation of the school. How much does 'name' matter? Would it make a significant difference to an employer to hire a graduate of a recognized school like NYU versus a lesser known school like Queens College, assuming GPA's are equivalent? More specifically, since NYU is almost 5x's as expensive to attend than Queens College, does the former (potentially) offer better enough employment prospects to justify the added financial investment?
 
2) Alternatively, for employment purposes, would it be wiser to enroll in the third program I was accepted to, LIU Post, which is an MS in Biomedical Sciences rather than an MS in Biology? (After all, Biology is more of a 'basic science' whereas Biomedical Science is more applied science)
 
3) Regarding 'focus areas' or specialties, I've heard it said that a focus area (genetics, immunology, neurobiology, etc.) is not as important for a Masters student who's planning to continue to a doctorate program; however, for a masters student planning to go to work in research (biotech, biopharma, etc.) I would assume it is important to have a focus area??? If so, could anyone suggest the most viable area among Molecular Bio, Genetics, Immunology, or Developmental?
 
4) Regardless of a focus area, is there any particular coursework or lab work I should get in order to make me a more viable candidate for employment.
 
5) Lastly, since I haven't yet heard from SUNY Stonybrook or Rutgers Biomedical Sciences, I have to pose this question:
If you were hiring, which of the following Masters degrees would you most likely hire from, or, at least, think is most attractive on a CV?
- NYU Biology (Applied Recombinant DNA Technology)
- SUNY Stonybrook (Biochemistry and Cell Biology)
- Rutgers University (Biomedical Sciences - Stem Cell research)

My apologies for the long message and the deluge of questions!
 
Any help would be IMMENSELY appreciated.
",1,0,1962.678235336887,GradSchool
Well...,"I applied to two graduate programs this year, and I just heard back from one of them on Friday. They don't want me. There's still a chance I'll get something in the mail next week from the other school, but my hopes aren't too high. It's a slightly more competitive program, and they rejected me last year, sooo.... I'll likely unsubscribe from this sub pretty soon. It was nice lurking here over the past several months. See ya. ",8,0,2024.8963950591094,GradSchool
Is Grad Life For You?,,2,0,2166.7027607998502,GradSchool
Grad School Barbie,,0,3,2177.671360336887,GradSchool
Motivation on a particularly rough day,"I'm having a particularly busy day, and it's not just ""busy with a lot of things to do"". Yes, there are a lot of things to do, but it's more of a ""busy with a lot of /difficult/ things to do"". So I decided to pull some inspiration from some recent events:

- [I'm sort of friends with Agent Coulson](http://i.imgur.com/HhMQL0X.jpg)
- [It's on me. I'll get it done](http://i.imgur.com/9CzMYTF.png)
- [It's like magic!](http://i.imgur.com/aqIjWiq.png)",0,3,2202.9278533924426,GradSchool
What is the best way to get into a UC (California) for Political Sci Graduate school?,"Any tips on research experience, gpa, GRE scores, etc? Trying to aim for UC Davis",3,2,2490.7759089479982,GradSchool
magoosh magoosh magoosh,"the best god damn test prep service ive ever used. tried preparing with kaplan the first time and holy hell was the actual exam ten times harder than what kaplan offered up.  switched to magoosh for the second time around and breezed by the math section.  magoosh prepares you by beating the crap out of you with difficult question after difficult question so that when you show up on test day your ready to tackle every single question. HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT.

edit: magoosh GRE general test :)",4,5,1803.274670522072,GradSchool
Genderfluid in STEM ok?,"I'm a 2nd year grad student in a natural science. I'm also genderfluid and would like to present as both masculine and feminine when in the lab. What could happen if I came out to my department? I don't feel like I understand academia norms well enough yet to know if it's culturally accepted? My department has a few LGB people who are out, but no transgender or genderfluid people for comparison. Like, would people still want to collaborate or hang out with me if they knew I wear dresses sometimes? Would my PI and committee still take me seriously?     Is there anyone here who has experienced this or have advice?",10,6,167.8681311702204,GradSchool
I’m leaving my PhD program.,"It’s too hard. I thought they just gave these things away. The people are rude and try to upend me. I was looking for a loving, caring environment and instead I entered a competitive lion’s den.

My advisor is hypercritical, unsupportive, and sexist. She doesn’t notice my subtle advances to go on a date and once said to me, “Why are your jeans unbuttoned in my lab?”My cohort are jerks. They went out for ice cream last week without me and constantly gossip about me. 

The only support I get is from the homeless man that lives outside of my building. Every night I take a seat next to him on milk crates, crack open two beers, and chat. He was a researcher at an R1 institution until he was fired for X (omitted to protect his identity).



",7,0,223.13546913318334,GradSchool
Am I allowed to get mad at my group/office mates for not working?,"Their research work doesn’t directly impact mine. I’m just pissed I’m the only one working. It’s demoralizing for me to see reddit, YouTube, and Facebook always open and never anything work related. I want the environment to facilitate work discussions not just memes and sports. 

",5,0,279.2202723739241,GradSchool
[Seeking Advice] Peer Sent Me Offensive Content,"Hi all, I am seeking others' advice on how to approach the following situation. 

&#x200B;

I'm a first-year female history doctoral student at a major university in the United States. Recently, a peer of mine in the same graduate program in my cohort sent me a text message with a link to an extremely offensive comedy video clip. The video contained racist (to my race) and homophobic (I'm a lesbian --  though I don't share this openly) jokes, and I was taken back by the inappropriate nature of the gesture. After telling this person that I was offended (hoping for an apology), they effectively told me that I couldn't take a joke, since they found such content funny (though they are not my race, or to my knowledge, a part of the LGBTQ community). I have only known this person in an academic setting and found it unprofessional that they thought I would find the video amusing. 

&#x200B;

I'm unsure whether I should report it for racial and sexual harassment or keep my head down about the situation. If I do report this instance about this person to department HR or campus equality office, I'm concerned it will negatively impact current and potential relationships with peers and mentors (if some of them, on some level, agree I should take the joke). Are there any other options that I could take, or has anyone experienced something similar? I would really appreciate some advice. 

&#x200B;",12,7,282.03152237392413,GradSchool
"Here you go, grad students, a chilling portent of what is to come for 90% of you...",,72,33,2061.994462188739,GradSchool
How to get a TA position,"Hey fellow grad students,

Can I get any advice on getting TA positions? I have been fortunate enough to be supported on RA for most of my PhD thus far, but am now needing to seek support through a TA position. I have been emailing departments and advisors for assistance, but no luck thus far.",5,0,1045.8890339479983,GradSchool
Asking a professor to take a graduate course as an undergrad/what to expect in a grad course,"I'm in my 4th year of undergrad studying Microbiology and I've taken a huge interest in an immunology focus. I took the major-required immunology course last spring and I honestly bombed it. Really bad.

 I'm in a more advanced immunology class right now (it's more of an intro grad course and most of my class is graduate students and a few undergrads) and it counts as an elective. I don't know what happened between that 1st class and this one but I've grown to absolutely love immumology, and I've done so well especially when considering how much more rigorous and fast paced this immunology course is compared to the first . I got 97% on 2 midterms and an 85% on the third (way better than the averages on all 3 tests and I'm on track to get an A easily) If anything the class is 10x more enjoyable because there are only 40 people in this course compared to 140 in the first...and I've noticed I do way better in smaller classes even though it requires way more work than other ones.

There aren't many other elective classes I'm interested in that fall under the undergrad category so I looked at the grad courses, and I've been interested in the 7000 lvl Immunology class. The professor for that class is also one of the professors for this class I'm in right now..he's been traveling so we've had guest lecturers for the past 2 weeks and I havent been able to discuss this in person with him yet. So I'm looking for advice on how to not look like an idiot when I ask him about the course because I need his permission to take it. 

In general...what do grad courses really consist of? What makes them challenging/harder than undergrad...if at all? I'm assuming it requires a bunch of reading academic papers/discussing them/presenting them/etc? I honestly have no idea. I don't even know how to approach this prof about taking this class because I don't want to seem naive about it. I know it's tough and it's so much information and it will require a ton of work and reading...but I really do enjoy learning immunology. Should I really ask what is expected from students, the structure of the class, etc? I don't want to sign up for something that could fuck me over so I want to make sure I know what I'm getting in to.

 I feel that if I take this grad class and do well it would look very good come grad school applications  to see a good grade in an advanced graduate lvl immunology class compared to that shit grade i got junior year. That's not the only reason for it but..it plays a role. 

",7,0,1055.6944390405906,GradSchool
My TA told me in lab that he liked me... and I like him but we still have 2 months left in the semester and I don't know how to tell him professionally that I like him but can't do anything until next semester,"It's basically all in the title. The worst part is is that I'm pretty sure someone overheard us... Dammit. Someone attractive, nice, and intelligent is finally mutually attracted to me, and they could lose their job for it. What is my life. ",16,2,1076.8609899665169,GradSchool
Do I have to apply to a former PI's Grad School?,"I did an internship at University of Blank, and it was really a great school and I loved the lab I worked in, but I absolutely hate the weather the school is in and know I wouldn't be able to handle it for 4-6 years. 

So, I decided I just wouldn't apply to that University. However, as I am supplying my former PI with a list of all my schools of interest, as I ask him for 7-8 rec letters, I am overcome with the concern that by not applying to the University of Blank I am straight up insulting him. Should I apply even if I have no real interest or else I will come off as an asshole to him?

tl;dr: Hate a university, but my rec letter writer is a prof there so I feel obliged to apply to that university. Should I?",12,1,1077.3978649665166,GradSchool
What is life like at grad school? Is it like being an undergrad? Do you get much free time? What holidays do you get?,"I am thinking of leaving the UK to come to a postgrad chemistry school in the USA (such as U of T at Austin, MIT, Berkley, CalTech or Princeton). I was just really hoping of hearing what life is like as a postgrad at an American Uni.

Thanks everyone :)",7,1,1080.2366265405908,GradSchool
Why are students around the world opting MIM over MBA?,,1,0,1087.276695985035,GradSchool
[GradLifeProTip] Differentiating Type I and Type II errors,,4,2,1111.3030154294797,GradSchool
Graduate school struggle with my low GPA,"I have done extremely bad in my undergrad, mostly by taking irrelevant courses that I decided I didn't want to major in! (I took 5 psychology course before switching program to pure Biology).

However, i ended up with a 2.51 gpa, did extremely well in my thesis course and essay-based courses! But what matters to the grad school committee is that I still have an overall 2.51 GPA!

I aspire to do research at UCLA, John Hopkins or San diego (UCSD). Since I graduated from UofT ,  I want to do my graduate degree at another ""good ranking university"" ! 

I am studying currently for my GRE and I feel good about it. 
But the ultimate question is, am I forever screwed for not having a good GPA to continue in Grad school ?


P.S. i tried applying for internship/co-ops after graduation but they all require ""High academic achievement"". I am honestly in a state of depression! I didnt fool around during my undergrad, I just made bad calls by choosing the wrong major and not realizing it was not the one which I am good at!

i would appreciate the advice. ",6,1,1116.0350177442945,GradSchool
Why are PhD programs 5 years?,"Don't people write at different speeds? Couldn't someone be proactive and finish in four if they read and write well? Wouldn't an international student new to the language and environment, or with research that takes longer, or any other factor take longer than the former for their dissertation? I've never grasped how such a solid timeline has been decided upon.

I do understand that some people take longer but for initial expectations and funding, 5 years seems to be on-time. This is also coming from a social sciences perspective. I understand that parts of STEM deal with data collection that simply takes more time external to the student's abilities.",20,0,1131.382158947998,GradSchool
Toxic Laboratory,"I am cross-posting two posts from another graduate student forum. The original was written on 7/8 and the second today.


I have had issues with my lab-mate since I began my PhD work last August. I entered the program with a MS.  I have to keep the details vague due to the immensity of this situation. I joined a lab of two other graduate students, let’s call them Sarah and Veronica. I entered the lab at the same time as a lab tech, John. When I interviewed for the lab I sensed that something was off with the graduate student dynamic. Which, in hindsight, should have been a red flag. Sarah became the person that my PI wanted me to work with. Our research areas overlapped and she was a very smart, productive student. I was even placed on a side-project with her. It soon became evident that she was a very controlling/micromanaging person. She works seven days a week and is always in lab. This personality type is very common in the sciences, so I wasn’t immediately put off. I did however have problems with how she talked about people. She held no trust for anything that anyone did. She ridiculed the skill set and work ethic of others constantly. She was also very close with my advisor. She was deemed that she was the only person in lab that was allowed to mix solutions. She was also the only person in lab training John and myself, even though Veronica is the most senior student. John was placed on a project using techniques that only Sarah uses. He had previous experience with these techniques. His results showed consistent, unexplainable contamination. He spent many weeks troubleshooting this work and eventually had one successful run. He was then taken off of the project, because of the failed attempts. I worked on a protocol that takes three days to complete where my materials must sit out in lab for three days. The first time that Sarah trained me my results were, “better than she had ever gotten them to work”. I then spent months trying to replicate them. Each time I would run this work I would get weak to no signal in the results. I knew that I was following the protocol. Other people weren’t having any issues, including undergrads. I even ran at the same time as Sarah using all of the same materials.  Still the same result of nothing happened. Each week I went to my PI with zero data. I am not uncomfortable with laboratory procedures and didn’t have any problems with them during my masters. I optimized an old protocol of Sarah’s (tweaking concentrations) and began another type of lab work. It was working with beautiful results. Sarah began to hover over me. She began to go through my notebook every time I turned my back. She was monitoring me and tattling to my advisor about solution volumes and concentrations. She told me that my methodology was completely inconsistent. I asked her why she thought that, because I knew that I was doing everything in my power to reduce variation. She was talking about a run from 1.5 months prior in which one of my 5’s looked slightly like a 3.  It had been consistent. It seemed she was looking for problems. This is when I started to think that she may be sabotaging my lab work. I talked to Veronica. I told her that I couldn’t breathe in lab and that her level of micromanagement was not appropriate.  I then told her that I felt crazy, but I was starting to think she could be sabotaging me. Veronica’s face dropped and she said, “I wish I could dispel that completely. There is no proof, but other’s have felt this way as well.” She explained that her and a previous lab mate had thought that. I was terrified at this point.  Things escalated with her and I was very paranoid. I talked to John and said the same thing, “I feel crazy, I feel like she is messing with my stuff.” He then told me that he had thought the same thing. He said that he put out decoy reagents and hid his reagents. That was when he had the one successful run. This fact only furthered my suspicions. I waited for her to go out of town for a conference and performed the protocol that had not worked for me since the very first run.  It worked. I didn’t do anything differently. I had spent over 300 hours and thousands of grant money troubleshooting this. It worked. When she came back, she was very off. She spent three hours in my advisors office having what Veronica said was an existential crisis. Veronica claimed that Sarah said, “If science is going to make me a bad person, I think I should quit.” I have now had two more successful runs. Now I am at a crossroads. I think she will back off, but I can’t be certain.  I now have complete disdain for Sarah, yet have to see her everyday.  I can’t talk about it to my PI, because it is such a bold accusation without concrete proof. This could result in funding being pulled or affect my PI’s tenure. I also believe it be a disservice to the scientific community as a whole to let an individual like this continue.  At this point, all I can do is get past it or provide evidence. I can’t focus to write or read. If anyone can give me advice I would be very gracious to hear it. Thank you for letting me get this off my chest.                  



Things have certainly escalated:

I wrote the original post while attending an academic conference.  At this conference, I was able to avoid rooming with my lab mates and room with some very close science friends.  My entire lab from my MS attended the conference, as well a some friends from my BS.  I was surrounded by many friends and scientists who like and respect me.  I had discussed all of my problems with my previous lab mates, as we all talk weekly.  They saw me go from, ""these girls are weird"" to ""I don't think they like me"" to ""something weird is going on"" to ""I think Sarah could be messing with my stuff"" to ""She is messing with my stuff"", a natural progression of a toxic/abusive lab environment (as I am finding out through researching this awful predicament). I was cordial to Sarah throughout the conference, but spent the majority of my time attending seminars and catching up with old friends. I received and email on the last day of the conference from my boss:

""Since things in lab have clearly not improved and seem to have escalated, I'd like to have a group meeting tomorrow to discuss these issues.  Please come prepared to discuss the issues, what you have done in the last couple of weeks to make things better, and your solutions for moving forward. This childish and counterproductive behavior needs to stop now!

this meeting is mandatory - tomorrow (Monday) at 10:30am in my office.""
 
I was confused. I texted Veronica, ""Have I been inappropriate, what's going on?"".  
 
She responded, ""I would have guessed that your friend Jill would have told you what she has been doing to Sarah all conference.""
 
I talked to Jill, who said that she had three interactions with Sarah.  This kind of made me mad, because they were instructed to avoid her at all costs.  Jill is a New Yorker and can come across as a little harsh at times.  She explained she wasn't happy to meet the girl, but couldn't think of what would warrant an emergency lab meeting. I was very nervous.  At this point it became clear to me that I was dealing with someone who is mentally unstable and driven by fear and paranoia. I'm sure she did run into my friends, as I have many of them that were in attendance at this conference.  I'm sure they were less than happy to meet her.  I think this prompted a response to situations that were in reality non-issues, but were escalated in her head.  Regardless, I am not capable of controlling the actions of other people.  I most certainly wouldn't want to cause more problems for myself in this lab.  
 
I felt pushed against a wall, I sent this email in response (**** for some degree of anonymity):
 
""I will be happy to meet and discuss.  I'm not entirely sure what this is about. I'm hoping that this is some sort of misunderstanding, as my recent interactions with Sarah have been friendly.  
 
I do think that I need to meet with you privately again as well. I have debated for months about coming to you. I think that since we are fact driven people the best thing for me to do is present you with the facts. I am hoping that this will shed some light on why I came to you last month.
 
1. My first **** worked.  It had ****, but the ***** quality was very poor. I was told by Sarah that it looked better than she had ever gotten it to work.
 
2. After that first run, my other **** did not work.  Even after trouble-shooting.
 
3. I felt like I was being hovered over by Sarah in the lab, as I told you when we met.
 
4. I talked to Veronica to express my frustrations. I told her ""I hope that I'm wrong, I know this can't be the case, but is there any way Sarah could be messing with my stuff?"" She said, ""I wish I could dispell that completely, but you aren't the only person who has thought this. There has been no proof of it.""
 
5. When things did not get better. I mentioned the same thing to John. He said he hadn't told anyone about this, but he had thought that Sarah was messing with his lab work as well. This was when his **** results were inconclusive.  John said he hid his reagents and then had a successful run. 
 
6. I didn't run an **** when Sarah was out of town in January. Sarah convinced me not to run one when she went to ****, telling me that I needed to ""step away from it for a while.""
 
7. Sarah went out of town for another conference in June. I ran an ****. It worked and has worked since.
 
I understand this is all circumstantial which is why I did not present it to you when we spoke last. But I now feel like I need to protect myself. That being said, I hope that this is not the case. Despite these events, I have made every effort to be cordial and professional with Sarah since I came to you in May. 
 
I am looking to you for guidance,
 
****""
I received no response.
 
The next morning, I sat down in a room where everyone was against me (PI, Sarah, and now Veronica).  The first thing that my PI said was, ""Is anyone here sabotaging or has sabotaged anyone else's work.  No? No? No? OK, good. We can forget that completely. It looks like you want to say something?"".
 
I explained my case.  Veronica made it seem like she told me that it was just ""where she was in her research"" when she thought that.  I was told that ""things just happen in research"" and that ""we all get frustrated at times"".  I was told how inappropriate it was to talk to anyone about my suspicions.  I was told it was inappropriate to talk to John or anyone else at my university.  I was mobbed by everyone in my lab.  They asked me how and why I think that could happen, I kept my mouth shut even though I had a very good idea of how and why all of this would be happening.  Sarah was in control of everyone.  She was manipulating their ability to see this situation for was it was.  She said that my friend grabbed her and screamed at her in a crowded room.  She said she feared for her physical safety. Jill, who I trust above most people, denies this completely. Sarah said that she didn't come to me, because it would likely get physical. She said that everyone at the conference seemed to know, including he president (who I definitely hadn't told, but am very close with). After all of these months of torturing me, she was playing the victim. I wasn't able to speak my side fully because I was being bombarded from every corner.   
 
Here are some great links to bullying and mobbing behavior:
http://bullyonline.org/old/workbully/mobbing.htm
http://psychcentral.com/blog/archives/2013/12/28/bullying-at-work-workplace-mobbing-is-on-the-rise/
http://www.eremedia.com/tlnt/when-bullying-turns-into-mobbing-everyone-in-the-workplace-loses/
 
Here are some great links to dealing with someone with borderline personality disorder in the workplace: 
http://www.borderline-personality-disorder.com/relationships/employee-or-coworker/
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/carol-w-berman-md/9-tips-on-how-to-recogniz_b_5224432.html
 
The parallels to my situation are eery and scary. 
 
Jill sent a letter to my PI. My PI said that it was obvious someone wasn't being completely honest.  Two weeks went by and they were creepily nice to me.  Treating me like a bomb that could go off at any second.  I can't focus on my work.  I feel like such injustice was served and that I would never be in control of my own research or relationship with my PI.  I started to see a counselor at my school.  She agrees that I am dealing with a very sick person and that the perception of reality in my lab is so warped that it is an unsafe environment.  She is wonderful and is helping a lot.  
 
Until yesterday...    
I was putting my specimens away in our freezer.  We recently moved from a -80ºC to a -20ºC freezer, because our -80ºC shorted out.  The specimens are fine to be stored at -20ºC and had been in that freezer all last week.  Each project I have has a separate box that is in a separate bag. The last time I had opened these boxes was on Friday (two days prior). I opened the boxes and there was a clear/gritty powdery substance all of my specimens.  I opened another box and they had the same thing.  Three boxes, all of my major projects all had powder covering them.  No one else's boxes were effected.  This happened over the weekend when, you guessed it, only Sarah was working. I have had issues with specimen quality, and when troubleshooting a month ago I explained to my PI that the specimens that sat in the freezer for longer seemed to look worse. It didn't make sense, because they should be able to sit for years. It kind of does now.  I'm fairly certain, that this has been going on for a while and that the move to a higher temperature made it more evident. 
 
Email sent to my PI:
 
""I just wanted to pass this along to you.  There was some weird gritty powder all of my specimens in the -20ºC this morning.  They were sealed in boxes in separate bags.  I passed it along to Veronica and Sarah to make sure that they checked their specimens as well.  So far, it looks like my specimens are the only ones effected. I think it will just wash off, I will know if it effects any of the lab work next week. Just wanted to tell you so that you could check your specimens when you get back in town.  It almost looks like salt or ground up desiccant.  Let me know if you have any idea what could cause this, so that I can prevent it in the future.""
 
Response:
 
""ok, thanks for letting me know.  looks like it could be desiccant dust.  you might want to give those slides a few dips in **** before you start **** with them to see if you can wash it off.""
 
Its amazing that everything can be explained away by a magical coincidence in a scientific laboratory. I'm at wits end.  I don't know how much more abuse I can take here.  I'm mostly posting here to protect myself and keep (yet another) paper trail.  Any opinions will be very appreciated.  
 ",6,0,1162.0574135776278,GradSchool
Any chemistry phd student/ grad here?,"I graduated with chemistry bachelor and now I am jobless. Instant regret and not wanna make the same mistake again. I read that most company requires Master/phD in order for me to find a job. But I just don't know if I could stick with chemistry for 5-7 more years and job prospect is not very promising (post-grad). Im definitely going for phD, what other option do I have. I have no intention in going to pharm/med but would like medical field. My end goal is to actually have a job and not graduate with PhD in Chemistry and going pos-grad for another 3-4 years tortured in a basement doing research. I'm in too deep now and if 
PhD in chemistry can't guarantee me a job my life is over as I can't afford (money-wise) another degree. Any advice are appreciated.",21,1,1177.7685941331833,GradSchool
Failed my MS Thesis Dissertation :( Could someone help me out??,"Dear Redditors, 

As the title says, I've failed my masters thesis dissertation recently. I feel like a huge looser now, i don't know what i'm gonna do in my life...huge debt, all my time and effort now adds zero value..:( 

**My whole story:**

I'm a Non-EU student who came to europe for masters and theoretical part was fine for me. I had huge hopes on my thesis and now everything is lost. I worked hard to convince my company guide and supervisor at university, but it resulted in this failure. I had some disagreements with my professor in the last few months of my thesis and i guess after that my bad time started. I lost his support and could see the difference clearly (I guess i've messed up). My professor was not convinced with my thesis (after i submitted my final report), he asked me to stop the thesis and its over. So i had to contact my exam committee for further information, after discussion with them, my report was forwarded to another professor (my prof's colleague) and he gave the feedback of NO GO. So i was completely collapsed and didn't know what to do, i wanted to defend my thesis to show my work atleast (my university allowed it, but it was risky, i took the chance). 

At the presentation, 3 profs were invited (includes my university supervisor), i could see clearly that my supervisor was extremely displeased to sit in the presentation and so even before the start of the presentation, i lost my hope. The presentation didn't go as planned and in the questions, most of my questions were targeted on just my limitations (which i set on the project). Finally, they said my thesis is insufficient and now its over. 

I couldn't speak much... I felt like crying the whole day, but controlled my feelings..and now thinking of this failure...:( 

To be honest, i worked hard for my thesis (Worked extra months without any compensation, just to succeed in my thesis) and sacrificed everything for my thesis. Finally, it didn't help me in anyway, just few misunderstandings lead to the issue, which reflected clearly on my thesis. 

Now, i don't know what to do..:( I have huge debt in my country, all my time and effort is now gone...i will not get my degree or allowed to re-take/another thesis...:( my parents are completely collapsed too. I feel extremely bad to face anyone and i guess i have to leave to my country in a few months ...

Did anyone faced this kind of issue in your life? any way to tackle the problem. i know its over, but some professor here could share your opinion on this issue..Expecting some response..

Thanks in advance

NOTE: My company coach is currently out of the scenario (he got my work, he sided with my supervisor). My supervisor is extremely pissed off about me (as i've requested for the thesis presentation in-spite of his ""NO GO""--->> the reason is that was the only option i had at that time)..",16,0,1207.5157700591094,GradSchool
Help/Edit of Personal Statement.,I am applying to grad school for my Masters in Public Health and would love anyone to take a look at my personal statement and let me know their feedback. Please let me know if your interested. ,2,2,1260.9837908924426,GradSchool
How do you make an argument in a graduate level research paper?,,18,0,1282.8413834850353,GradSchool
Is it easier to get into IVYs than non-IVY graduate schools?,"Correct me if I'm wrong, I think it is easier for an average performing student to get accepted into an IVY league graduate program than a states/non-IVYs graduate program. 

The  IVY league universities have established a reputation of academic excellence for many years and have been viewed as some of the most prestigious universities worldwide while most states/non-ivy schools are still in the process of constructing similar reputations. With this type of stellar reputation, all IVYS tend to attract high performing students; however, the need to select high performing students is not a necessity. They can afford to provide admission to a mixture of high and average performing students because it is unlikely that an average performing students (students with mediocre GRE scores/B+ A- gpa) would put a dent to their already established stellar reputation. In addition, the probability that an average performing student converts to a high performing student also increases as he/she is influenced by their high performing peers. Universities that are still establishing their reputation, want the best students to help them achieve that goal, therefore admitting mostly high performers. 

This is why I don't think an average performing students should deter themselves from applying to IVY league programs because the probability of being accepted maybe higher. Of course, there are other factors that play a role in getting accepted such as program fit between student and professors and just plain luck. 

This is my thought, what do you think?

P.S. I'm not referring to their admission rate but the type of students they admit into their program. For example, say an IVY has an acceptance rate of 10%; they would admit 10 students of out 100. Of those 10 students , 5 are high performers and 5 are average performers. Other schools with similar acceptance rate may select 9 high performers and 1 average performer.

**excuse the grammar",3,0,1308.0025293183685,GradSchool
Admissions Question,"Somewhat unique situation.. Will be graduating with Bachelor's degree in May. Have been doing undergraduate research for past 14 months. Received a misdemeanor conviction for doing very something stupid in August 2015. Have taken full responsibility and have mad every required effort to be upfront and honest about situation.

On every graduate application except for the one to my undergraduate institution, I have been asked about criminal record, have answered truthfully, submitted all necessary documents, and have been cleared without an issue. However, my undergraduate institution never asked about criminal background on the application. Is it my duty to volunteer my situation to either the graduate admissions committee or to the undergraduate research head? Or should I wait it out? I have still not heard about admissions since the application wasn't due until 3 weeks ago",3,1,1319.3044158924426,GradSchool
Long distance during grad school?,"I’ve read through similar posts on /r/relationships, /r/gradschool, and other grad school related websites, but I’d appreciate any feedback or personal anecdotes that might help aid my decision in the coming months.

My girlfriend and I have been dating for two years and it’s been great. Two years isn’t very long, but I think we could happily spend the rest of our lives together and we’ve already broached the topic of marriage. I feel that she is the one.

We have both applied to PhD programs (both majors take 5.5 years on average). We have been very fortunate this admission cycle and both got into at least one top 5 school. 

Unfortunately, the only school we were both admitted to (technically she is still interviewing) is top 10 for her, but not as appealing to me. It’s top 30, my advisor has similar interests as me, but I will literally be his first grad student. I am concerned that it will be difficult to land a postdoc position with such a new professor as my advisor.

I am very conflicted because I’ve always put work before the rest of my life. Perhaps it’s time to focus more on what makes me happy.

In summary, my questions are:
Can long distance work during grad school?
Any advice for long distance?
Does top 5 vs top 30 matter?
Is it a significant disadvantage to be the first grad student?

tl;dr: long distance for 5 years?! HELP!",12,1,1325.8054344109612,GradSchool
My British degree will get me into any grad school in the UK; yet was evaluated as a US GPA 3.2,"Forgive me if this has a bit of attitude to it, as I'm a little butthurt over how my degree was evaluated by a third party agency. Hopefully I am being premature with it, that being said.

I graduated from the University of Aberdeen with a ""MA(Hons) History and International Relations"" (it's actually a Bachelor's, quirk of Scottish system). The uni was founded in 1495 and is the fifth-oldest university in the English-speaking world. I am currently an enlisted member of the USAF and will be applying to be an officer this year. I meet the GPA requirements of 3.0 and most factors seem to indicate I'm a shoe-in.

A few years into being an officer I'd be interested in applying for an MPA to continue further in the public service. From what I've heard, 3.2 is actually considered a low GPA for applying to grad school, which irritates me into making butthurt ramblings about how the American education system is so score- and test-oriented. For example, from my understanding it is near enough impossible to get an equivalency evaluation of 4.0GPA from a UK degree that may be ranked as a 1st class (mine is Upper 2nd, just one down). An Upper 2nd is the norm in the UK, and can effectively get you into any grad school.

Am I worrying too much over this? Will there be leeway given that my credentials come from an overseas institution? I have a perfectly acceptable degree from an ancient university, and I hate for it to be undermined in such a way!

Thank you.",17,0,1328.8420663554057,GradSchool
Question for students with horrible/abusive PIs,"Basically, how did you end up in your situation?  Did you decide it would be worth enduring for the prestige/grants/etc?  Did the current students not warn you of how the PI could be?  Did the PI change during your time in his/her lab?  Other?

I'm curious, both generally and also because I'm planning to go to grad school soon and want to know how reliable I can expect my impression of my potential PI to be.",3,1,1339.1420663554056,GradSchool
Can anyone help me choose between a chemical engineering master in Berkeley or in Cambridge?,"I have been accepted in both Berkeley's MS Product Development Program as well as Cambridge's MPhil in Advanced Chemical Engineering. I realize these two are both top schools in the field but that kind of makes the decision process even more complex.

Note that the QS world ratings are: Berkeley 26th, Cambridge 3rd. However, in chemical engineering, they are 2nd and 4th respectively.

Some factors I would like you to consider are: Starting salaries, employment opportunities and teaching processes.
Factors I would like you to neglect are: Technical content of the course (research, difficulty, etc.) and tuition fees (I have financial aid).
I know there is no definite answer, and it all really depends on my preferences, but I'm not asking for someone to enlighten me about my own preferences. I'd rather have someone tell me his/her own opinion/experience with US/UK grad schools. Also, is it true that starting salaries are lower in the UK than in the US, and that taxes and living costs are higher?

Any input would be greatly appreciated!",3,0,1344.8948209850353,GradSchool
"I applied to 14 grad programs, so far I've received 3 rejection letters. (English phd)","I'm going a little nuts thinking I'm going to receive more. I know if I don't get into anything it means I'm not a good fit for grad school and that the programs I applied to were really competitive and my field is terrible and whatever else. I need some help dealing with this stress. I was fine before I received my first, but now I feel like all my worst fears are coming true. ",5,0,1348.0124020035537,GradSchool
Passing Tests Instead of College Classes,"Curious:

If someone were to test high on the SAT, the GRE & related SAT subject tests (ex. English) would they still need to do the 4 years of undergrad to get into grad school? My understanding is that your  sat/ gre test scores override your courses. 

Thanks!",5,2,1359.3838950591091,GradSchool
"Grad school isn't making financial sense to me, am I missing anything here? (","I'm in my last semester of a US 4 year school, with a 4.0 GPA in economics. 

Assuming 2 years to get a masters after I graduate, it doesn't seem like the pros of going to grad school outweigh the cons.   The cost (in loans) of 2 years of grad school at my school will be around $15k.  Add to that, the forgone income I would receive for two years working full time with a professional job that I got with my bachelor's degree (the current plan is some kind of financial analyst job, but I'm flexible) Its worth mentioning that I would also have 2 years of valuable work experience which I wouldn't have if I went to grad school.


Add to that, the fact that my research seems to indicate that a masters in economics is perhaps not as valuable as it first appears as far as getting a good job relative to a bachelors.


This is all assuming that I get a full time job a few months after graduating of course.

Any thoughts on this?

Thank you for your time guys!",24,2,1364.3217422813314,GradSchool
"applying to grad school, grades vs experience?","So I want to go to grad school like most people, however I am taking a few years gap in between as I want to live my 20's doing things I want to do like traveling the world and getting some hands on job experience. So far I have been working in my field (I am a psych major and work at a psychiatric facility) for 2 years and will soon be leaving to teach english in a foreign country. I am unsure of how long I will teach english for but I am guessing 1-2 years. In college I attended a CC to save money for 2 years before transferring to a UC. At the CC I achieved a 3.21 GPA. At the CC I attended a 2.69 GPA. I took the GRE and my scores are verbal:157 math:159 and essay: 4.
So after all that info here is the questions I have. After working and doing things in my gap between college and grad school, what is more important? Grades or what I was doing in those years? Another question is should I retake the GRE or are those grades decent enough to get me into a good grad program?I guess I am just worried I didn't do well enough to get into grad school on my grades alone so I am hoping that doing productive things may help increase my chances. Thanks for reading. TL;DR: after a few years gap what is more important, grades or what you did in that gap?",10,0,1386.306533947998,GradSchool
Help! I'm getting work dumped on me.,"PhD Student in engineering, nearing the end of my program. I'm independently funded because of an excellent fellowship. This is great, because it's letting me lead several research projects that I'm interested in. I'm currently working on 3 big projects that I see having great publication potential, with a number of faculty in the department. It's all very exciting, but it leaves me quite busy.

Now, I have two advisers (mistake, but whatever, here we are):

* Adviser #1 is pretty disengaged from my research, just checks in a few times a year to make sure I'm on track with publications. His main research area is different than mine, and I've come to accept that.
* Adviser #2 is interested enough in what I do, and we meet fairly regularly to discuss projects. We have the same research areas, he just has a largely non-overlapping research project list.

Now, one of my projects has started overlapping (kind of superficially) with one of Adviser #2's projects, so I offered to help a little with some of his stuff over the summer and last semester. Unfortunately, this has now snowballed to my working on a number of related but still distinctive issues this semester. I no longer have the time or energy to commit to working on these issues, especially since they don't advance my degree or research projects at all. I'm trying to get a number of papers written and new pieces of technology done, and I don't have the time to work on their escalatingly more complex system. He has at least one other grad student on this project (used to have another who just graduated), so I don't think I'd be leaving them high and dry. But now they think that I have ownership of some of their codebase (even though I've only touched a small part of it, and most of it was written by one of their former students).

The only reason I haven't flat out said ""no more work"" is because I'm afraid of ticking off one of my advisers. He's one of the harder ones to satisfy on my committee, and I don't want to anger him. But I'm getting really tired and annoyed at this. Working on the project is frustrating, boring, and feels so useless. Anyone have any suggestions on what the heck to do here? I don't think Adviser #1 will help me, and I guess I could go ask some of my other committee members, but I wanted to hear your guy's thoughts here before I try and escalate this.",1,0,1427.1350293183684,GradSchool
Some questions from an undergrad,"I am currently a senior in college, and will be graduating in May 2016. I met with my adviser, and we found a Masters program in Industrial/Organizational Psychology that I am going to try applying for. I have some questions for those of you currently enrolled in graduate school.

Are you working part time/full time while going to graduate school? 

Are there any kinds of financial aid offered in graduate school? 

What is the best way to study for the GRE? 

",1,0,1434.9379344109611,GradSchool
PhD in optoelectronics,"Hello,
I would like to know whether pursuing a PhD where I would work on InGaN/GaN Multiple Quantum Wells for Photovoltaics is worth it. Is it really interesting to optimize this technology in optoelectronics? I am asking because I want to pursue a PhD but this is the only subject available, so I want to make a more informed decision by asking for your opinion.

Thank you.",3,0,1436.9994390405907,GradSchool
Will obtaining a graduate certificate make up for my low gpa?,I would like to go back to school (5 years since I graduated) but I have a pretty low gpa. I was thinking about getting a graduate certificate to make up for this. Would this increase my chances?,2,1,1463.7672746887388,GradSchool
Might be a stupid question: how much do grades/GPA really matter?,"I'm in an M.S. program and I'm about 80% sure that I want to go into industry after.  I know that it's obviously better to have a high GPA than a lower one, but I also have heard that for jobs, they don't really care as long as it's not terrible.  And if I want to do a PhD or more school, then a good GPA matters, of course, so I will still work hard just in case I change my mind later.

I'm just wondering because I'm getting a little stressed trying to get very good grades in grad school since I could have done much better in undergrad, but I don't know if that stress is unwarranted if it doesn't make a huge difference.",6,2,1466.1970547813314,GradSchool
Just did a page count for my EE PhD thesis...,"Had to brag a little... hit 70 pages and I've not even presented all of my current work.  My Prof. requires that many, about half of a thesis draft, before we do our Comprehensive Exam
Now to find a way to get a couple of journal articles so I can graduate!  ",0,1,1468.0716149665166,GradSchool
Would you give practice talk feedback about clothing?,"I attended a practice talk recently, and the presenter (woman, fellow grad student) was wearing a skirt that wouldn't have passed the finger-length test.

We give written, semi-anonymous feedback so that they can improve presentation skills. Concerned that my entire career would come crashing down on me, I didn't say anything.

Would you?

Edit: To elaborate a bit, it's a fact that women presenters are discriminated against more severely according to what they're wearing. In our field, giving a job talk is the only way to get a job. If a peer is wearing clothing that will likely lead to discrimination against them, should I speak up? Or is the act of speaking up going to cause more offense than it's worth?",13,0,1475.2317654294795,GradSchool
appealing PhD Qualifying decision,"I failed my PhD Qualifying exam and I want to appeal the decision because I think the whole process is tainted. I have not been told about my written exams grades, no single comments. My advisor showed me just 1 out of 3 written exams and it was graded just 50%, that means that half of the exam was not even reviewed!...I do not know anything about the rest of the evaluation and She told me that I would not be allowed to have the oral exam. I have been asked to leave the program immediately.",9,2,1503.7610131146648,GradSchool
GRE subject test,"I am working on applications for PhD programs in English right now and a lot of them require the GRE subject Test in literature. I have already taken a practice test (I scored average) and would really like to improve my scores. 

Can anyone offer any advice/tips for how to study for this test? ",7,0,1519.8446820961462,GradSchool
What's the best Psychology-based Masters degree?,"I posted this in another sub, but this one might work better.
I'm trying desperately to settle on a masters program in the Psych field. I've done online research and have looked at Clinical Psycholgy, Career Counseling, and Engeneering Pschology. But I figured I'd reach out to you guys. What's your recommendations for Masters Programs in terms of job outlook and pay?",5,0,1522.246314040591,GradSchool
PhD in progress ~ Seeking PhD graduates to participate in my research!,"Need recent doctoral graduates from an online institution.  Please email me sweeneyjoy@aol.com if you have recently graduated from an online University and would be willing to spend about an hour talking about your experience.
Thank you!
",0,0,1544.9398557072573,GradSchool
"Is it possible to have ""the college experience"" in grad school?","I go to a huge commuter school in an inner city.  I never really got to experience the whole cliche about living in a dorm, partying, having intense intellectual conversations, and showing any school pride - my school doesn't really do any of those things.  It's something I've always wanted to have.  My parents both experienced it at their own colleges.  I'm wondering whether it's possible that - if I go to a school which is known for that kind of lifestyle - I could experience that in graduate school.  I know that I'll be going for a masters and most likely a Ph.D. in communications sciences and disorders.",20,1,1552.0592422813315,GradSchool
Thoughts on the demise of pie charts? (crosspost from r/graphs),,0,1,1583.8513603368872,GradSchool
Help! My Spouse Is Being Abducted by Grad School!,,0,0,1602.4048441331834,GradSchool
I am ashamed of myself not correcting a pseudoscience guy.,"I'm not very certain I am allowed to share something like this here, but I couldn't find a better place to submit this. I apologize if I'm at the wrong place. 

I'm an undergraduate senior studying radiation health physics, graduating in a few weeks. I just got accepted to a medical physics graduate program, and I'll be starting my graduate study this September. 

I love science and learning. I try my best to be humble about it. But I don't quite like pseudoscience. 
 
I met a guy at a bar last weekend, who is writing a book about the brain based on the knowledge he acquired from science fiction novels. 

And he began to talk about how dangerous GMO and nuclear power is. And he expanded that topic to the extent that it started to sound like a conspiracy. He made some more claims about the dirty bombs being an unstoppable threat that can be created from contaminated dirt, nuclear power essentially being weapon technology, and depleted uranium warheads causing infant deformations in Iran. 

It wasn't very hard to learn that this person is a follower of pseudoscience. 

I tried to provide him with some facts that I've learned during my undergrad years, but this person wouldn't stop presenting his seemingly bottomless pseudoscientific arguments, and I had neither the energy nor time to correct everything. 

It was somewhat funny because I've been doing research on the very topic he made an argument about- personal radiation protection in the case of radiological dispersal device attacks and nuclear power plant emergencies. So I tried to talk a bit about it, but I was soon stopped by his unrelentingness. 

So I just went with the 'hmm, I find it hard to believe but well, please finish quickly' mode for the rest of the conversation because at that point I lost all the willpower to argue with this person.


Now that I think of the conversation, I am ashamed that I did not try harder to correct him, especially because a part of why I am studying radiation science is to be able to help other people understand radiation and nuclear power. And I am also not proud of my inability to efficiently produce scientific arguments based on scientific facts I already know well. 

Of course, my current knowledge is limited and I will have to learn a lot more about this in the future. But this event made me feel like I've enabled that person's pseudoscience. 




Eventally, I plan to thoroughly learn the science and use it for the benefit of others. I hope I can achieve that. 


TLDR; Didn't correct pseudoscience. Feeling bad. 

**ADDENDUM**: I don't think it's my ultimate calling to correct every misinformation that people have. I just want to contribute to spreading scientific literacy, and make myself a valid scientist in the process.
",16,2,1624.8984783924427,GradSchool
"Which graduate school, out of these, should I go to for Electrical Engineering?","I have admits from:

* UMass Amherst : MS in VLSI/CAD and Embedded Systems.
* University of Florida : MS in VLSI Systems.
* Arizona State University : MSE in Analog and Mixed Signal Circuit Design.
* Stony Brook University : MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering.

I am keen on doing a course that offers solid research work and knowledge. Since I am an international student studying on a loan, I would like a platform for good job opportunities.

Suggestions?",3,3,1637.4753070961465,GradSchool
Should I discontinue with my PhD and pursue a career in the police force in Australia?,"- I am currently doing a PhD right after my undergrad degree in biotechnology, looking at downstream processing for biodiesel production in Australia.
- Main intention of undertaking this program was to hopefully obtain the necessary knowledge to start up a business within this area 
- Current situation is that I've missed out on the funding round for this quarter due to large cuts by the government. I've discussed this situation with my supervisor, however, he is still trying to find alternate routes to this situation. I'm less than 6 months into the program, however, I don't want to leave it too late. I've heard horror stories of people dropping out midway through and finding it difficult to pick up a job afterwards, going through depression, and other problems related in being a PhD student. Furthermore, I'm witnessing my colleagues talking about other jobs outside the field (which doesn't look very hopeful at all?)
- What I want to do, but not sure if it is a suitable decision is to join the police force. This is because 1) job satisfaction, 2) a stable and solid career path with decent pay, and 3) the uncanny resemblance between research and detective work is one that intrigues me. I do plan to upgrade my skills, perhaps undertaking a masters in IT or reconsidering doing a PhD as part of an organisation (since one might be able to negotiate with them to sponsor your PhD?)

I'm not too sure if it's actually a wise choice, since many of my friends and family said why waste 5 years of education to pursue a career which can be easily attainable by a highschool graduate, but I've always disagreed. 

It would be great if I could hear some of your personal opinions or experience, or perhaps stories from people you know that may have had this sudden change in career =)

Cheers!",7,0,1650.6955038554054,GradSchool
How soon will they jump?,"I'm accepted for a programme but wait-listed for funding. They said I am first in the queue. The deadline for acceptance/rejectance is the 15th of April. Are people going to be douches and not decline offers until the 15th of April?
It's for Philosophy at Tulane, if that helps. ",5,0,1652.2425177442944,GradSchool
Help me choose a grad school! Two acceptances!,UNC Chapel Hill versus Penn State University. What would you pick for a PhD in Biology.,9,1,1663.895388114665,GradSchool
Are you allowed to get more than one masters degree?,"The school I'm going to attend has a bit of a funny program they are introducing. It's called a [concurrent bsc-msc](http://www.sfu.ca/computing/current-students/graduate-students/academic-programs/concurrent.html) in CS, so basically you graduate with both a bsc and a masters.  

I always wanted to apply for a masters in the states, you know, the good schools (there are reasons for this). Have you guys ever witnessed someone doing two master degrees (I don't mean at the same time)? I'm interested in this program because I think it will, with addition of all other pre-requisite things you need like a few reference letters and maybe some undergraduate research, really help in the aspect of getting admitted into a graduate program in Berkeley or Stanford. But it would be funny if I would lose my ineligibility to apply because I already would have a masters.

What do you guys think? I'm gonna shoot them an email too but I expect they would take like 2 weeks to get back so making this post seems like a good idea!  ",12,1,1683.0076566331832,GradSchool
Masters / PhD grad students in Mechanical Engineering at MIT or UC Berkeley: how do you feel about your department?,"Information about anything and everything welcome: department politics / work day / school culture / location / lifestyle / quals / classes / average happiness / available resources etc.

I'm looking to learn as much as I can about each school from students within each department. These are things that are hard to find out simply by visiting the school. ",2,0,1689.7211867257759,GradSchool
Would you accept an offer from a Tier 2 school?,"So, a little background: I'm about to graduate with a BA from a small liberal arts college. I applied to roughly 6 schools, but was only accepted to a Tier 2 social science PhD program. I'm being considered for 23k a year stipend and four year tuition waiver. Is this worth it?

I know that I can only go into teaching at universities that are at the same rank or lower. I never planned on going into academia, because I want to work for the government or a think tank. However, I don't want a lesser school to dictate what I can and can't do. 

I'm feeling incredibly bummed out because I only got into my safety school. I just don't really know if it's worth it. What do you all think?",7,0,1690.0908163554054,GradSchool
Please help a grad student out with cap stone project by answering this 2-question survey!,,3,0,1703.0413603368872,GradSchool
"Play Online Games, and win money! MIT/UPenn Research Labs.","Play the Name Game!

The Name Game is a game from the Social Innovations Lab at MIT and UPenn. It's easy to play, really fun, and you keep the money you win! 

**Earn up to $3.00 for a 15 minute game!**

Follow this link to register for the game. You will receive an invitation via email to a live game in the coming weeks.
[http://ndg.asc.upenn.edu/ngame](http://ndg.asc.upenn.edu/ngame)

All players are anonymous, and no personal or identifying information is used.

Payment will be distributed via Paypal to the email provided.",2,2,1723.1994043183684,GradSchool
What are the best sources for GRE practice?,What's the best source for GRE practice? My brother tells me Kaplan sucks. Does anyone have any recommendations?,9,1,1750.8926913554055,GradSchool
"""Top"" Grad. Programs tend to have students from other ""Top"" schools... Is this due to performance, or natural ""social"" gravitation?","In short, I'm noticing that students at top graduate programs at Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Stanford, Chicago, etc. tend to come from similar ""level"" schools (for their undergraduate). 

So my question is, is this pattern in existence because such schools are producing individuals with great UG research experience, independent publications, fantastic academic potential, etc., or is it because students from such UG programs dare to apply to these graduate programs?

I'm curious because I go to a fairly strong (as far as research goes) Non-R1 institution that doesn't ever produce individuals that go to these schools... And I happen to what to attend such graduate programs. If I bring just as much visible evidence of potential as a candidate from a similar level school as the Ivy University program, are we really equally likely to get in? 

I'm posting this here as well as in /r/gradadmissions because I see the relevance for both subs. 

Thanks in advance, all.",13,1,1755.738108022072,GradSchool
Should I apply to graduate school?,"So I want to hear if anyone is in a similar situation as I am or has any helpful information regarding my situation.

I am currently a computer science (B.S) major in a big flagship state school in the east coast. I'm graduating in a year and plan to apply to graduate school (M.CS or M.S) for either the spring 2016 or fall 2016 semesters. My situation however is a little different. Almost every graduate program requires a 3.0 GPA in all undergraduate coursework. I went to college A for 3 years before I transferred to my current school. About 80% of the coursework I took at college A was mostly general education courses (psychology, sociology, English, etc...) and the rest were first year calculus and science courses. I went to a very bad high school in nyc and was not at all prepared for the academic rigor of college when I started and ended up with a 2.5 GPA from that school. However, after I transferred and started my CS education, I did comparatively much better and I will be graduating with no less than a 3.2 GPA (almost all CS courses) from my current school.

Now this is where my confusion lies, since graduate schools evaluate transcripts and GPA's from every school you have attended and average them (so I have heard), my GPA will be in the range of 2.8-2.9 which will not qualify me for majority of graduate programs I want to apply to.

Should I still apply?

Some things I have heard from people regarding my situation:
1. People have gotten in with GPA's < 3.0, either because of work experience or their Technical GPA was high.
2. Grad admissions mostly care about your grades in major related courses...
3. You can ace the GRE, write a strong SOP and get good LOR's and it just might work..

What do you guys think? anyone in or was in a similar situation? any comments, insights,.. anything will be appreciated!

Also, the graduate schools I plan to apply to are...
1. UC-Davis
2. Ohio State
3. USC
4. University of Arizona
5. Virginia Tech
6. UC SB

Currently my mock GRE's have resulted in 310-315. I still have 6 more months of preparation before I actually take the exam.
Any feedback?",2,1,1757.1371705220722,GradSchool
Can I overcome an extremely bad year of graduate coursework if I have a decent undergraduate? Please share you thoughts and experiences.,"So, I was a decent undergraduate student.  I graduated with a History maj/Spanish min, 3.5 GPA.  All As and Bs, one C in Macro because I missed a test. A withdrawal my freshman year from German I because I decided to stick with Spanish. However, I did one year of a Master's program in History and I failed five courses of graduate history and a very nice professor withdrew from another one.  I should have withdrawn in the first place but I was a TA and I did not want to abandon my position nor did I want to lose the funding that I received that year.  

I am worried that my very poor year of graduate studies will now prevent from applying for further graduate work, especially in any funded and respectable programs that are competitive. I do think that I have respectable undergraduate coursework and papers and that I could produce several recommendation letters from academics that I studied under.  Anybody want to share any thoughts about my future prospects or how I could strengthen my hand going forward? Please help. Thanks.",5,0,1795.2274135776279,GradSchool
I'm turning in my first late assignment. Ever. I'm disappointed in myself.,"I feel strange. I have never turned in an assignment late before that didn't have a proper extension form filled out. I'm getting marked down 5% but that's okay. I just wish I would have allocated my time better, but I'm so tired and I tried to finish it last night. I'm really disappointed in myself, but I'll get over it. Has anyone else done this?  ",14,0,1796.5125524665168,GradSchool
thinking for applying for a ms degree in CS,i am moving back to the states and i am thinking of applying to masters program in computer science so I want to  which schools accept internationals and how is it for international students. ,0,0,1799.6205154294798,GradSchool
What are your thoughts on GRE minimum requirements?,"Do you think they're a necessary component to graduate school? 

I recently studied 80-100 hours for my GRE and scored in the 50th percentile (not too hot). I lost some of my top graduate program choices and I honestly can't imagine studying another 100 hours. I've lost 4 out of 7 of my top program choices for Primatology because I can't solve for the area of overlapping triangles. 

Is it reasonable for programs to place minimum requirements on these arbitrary standardized tests? Or is it more about showing the dedication to endure? What are your thoughts?",7,1,1843.2672515405907,GradSchool
"No orientation after master's, need advice.","Hey, thanks for reading :)

I finished my master's in molecular medicine at a german university. I have been traveling for 6 months afterwards. While traveling I thought ""you will take care of gradschool when you finish traveling"".

Well, now I am finished, there are so many graduate schools and groups etc. to chose from, but I don't know what I want.

I am ""lost"", no idea what interests me. I am sitting at home, checking groups but having no idea what interests me. A feeling of being hollow, without orientation.

Did anyone have a similar situation? What did you do about it to feel better?

Thanks in advance!",1,2,1849.2956195961465,GradSchool
"My university wont give me my degree unless I pay a ""fine""","**1. Introduction**
I am a fully funded grad student who earned a masters degree this past April on-the-way to earning my PhD. I wasn’t made aware of the fact that I earned enough credits for this degree until May. I am not registered for the 1-credit hour this semester as required by the grad school to be a full-time student. This is because by the time I graduate, I will have more than the required credits for the degree, so why waste the $820.25 of my advisor's money for the credit.

**2. The Problem**
The nickel-and-diming bastards in the Dean’s office require students to enrolled the semester that they file the paperwork for their degree, regardless of whether they have already completed the degree in full. I.e., I can’t get my masters degree and corresponding stipend increase of about $350 per month unless I pay the nearly $1000 dollars out of pocket for a single credit plus corresponding late fees. Essentially a fine. Otherwise I have to wait until December. The secretary ended the email informing me of this with a god damn smiley face. After taxes, the stipend increase won’t make up for this cost.

**3. Solution Methodology**
This is where I need your ideas. I have already talked with my department chair, he basically said too bad. He pays my stipend and constantly bitches every chance he gets about how much grad students cost. I am not going to get anywhere with him. My advisor told me the policy sucks, but there isn’t anything he can do. I would prefer not to press him further.

Any ideas you have would be greatly appreciated. The only ones I have involve blackmailing (a bad idea), or dedicating the acknowledgements section of two papers I am writing this summer to certain staff members in the graduate school (absolutely a bad idea).",15,3,1937.0500871887389,GradSchool
"If not, then what?","I have two liberal arts Bachelor's degrees (History and Classical Humanities) and I see a lot of people around here giving the unsolicited advice to those with undergrad degrees similar to mine ""don't go to grad school. no seriously. dont.""  So I feel moved to ask, if not grad school what then?  Are we forever doomed to minimum wage, unenjoyable, customer service jobs?

Let me personally say that I love school, and research and am going to grad school at little cost to myself and have been told many times that it will be the time of my life.  But I'm curious, what REAL advice would one give to someone with liberal arts bachelor's degrees if you think grad school is a bad idea? ",2,1,1962.9698441331834,GradSchool
"Bringing up the ""two-body problem"" with a potential PI","I figured I would post this here rather than /r/gradadmissions because it is not about the application process, but rather customs in academia (I have already been ""accepted"").

My SO and I will be graduating from undergrad next year, and I have no doubt that I want to go to grad school in a science field.  My biggest research interest is extremely specific, i.e. three labs in the world are working on it.  I have done a substantial amount of research in this field already on my own.  There is one lab that studies this topic exclusively that I would love to work at for grad school.  I recently spent a day working at this lab, talking with the PI and meeting the grad students.  When I left, the PI told me, ""With your qualifications, you won't have a problem getting in here, but if you run into any troubles I'll push your application through.""  By all objective measures, this is a school I am overqualified for, but the work this lab is doing is fascinating, and the PI has a very good name in my field.  I absolutely loved the lab when I visited.  The PI said we should reconnect in a week or two once I have ""had the opportunity to reflect on the experience.""  From the way he said it, I assumed he wanted me to commit to his lab by the next week.

However, my SO is off to med school.  This school happens to be her home state school, which accepts 33% of in-state students.  She has excellent qualifications, so I wasn't too worried that we would end up at different schools... until she bombed her MCAT.  Her score is just barely below the normal cutoff score for considering applicants.  She can't retake it until after she needs to apply.

I know her choice of school is going to affect mine; I have several other potential schools in common with her.  I would attend that PI's lab in a heartbeat if she got into this school too, as would my SO.  However, when I talk to the PI next week, I don't know whether I should mention it or not.  (He specifically asked me ""what are your reservations in coming here"" at our previous meeting, but my wishy-washy answer was conveniently interrupted by someone else.)  So if he asks me this question, should I mention the situation with my SO, or should I just give a generic ""I'm keeping my options open."" statement?  I don't know if mentioning an SO as being important at such a young age (21) comes across as juvenile.  I also don't want it to come across as ""me asking for him to help her get in"".  (However, I certainly would be thrilled if he would...)

The only other info I have that might be helpful is the fact that the PI shares his lab with his wife who he met in grad school, and that if my SO doesn't get in anywhere this year, she is reapplying next year.  Also, I will almost certainly be receiving a grant for grad school and thus funding myself.

Thanks for your thoughts!

tl;dr - Do I tell a potential PI (who already wants me) that my SO is also applying and her admission will influence my decision?",13,0,1971.3305270035537,GradSchool
"What's Grad School Like? Here's your answer, given entirely though pop culture references",,1,1,1982.8593348739241,GradSchool
About to graduate... whats next?,"I'm finishing up my undergraduate, getting a BA in psychology.  My GPA is 2.66, 2.65 in my major.  I don't know what to do after I graduate.  I would like to go to grad school for something to do with psychology, but I feel extremely unprepared.  I have never had an internship, and don't have much job experience.  My school has emailed information about research assistants needed, but they all require a GPA of 3.0 or higher.  Also on the applications they always ask to list relevant courses and the grades I received.  I never really know what to even write down, because my courses all felt like they were so general and I didn't really learn very much.

I guess overall I feel so unprepared for grad school.  This last semester has been a complete joke.  I'm taking a capstone course which is supposed to be writing intensive and you need to write a big research paper or something, but my class doesn't do anything, we write these stupid little personal papers every week but there is no research or actual work involved, and we also don't learn anything.  I think my school has really just left me extremely unprepared and I don't feel like I really learned much in my 5 years here.

I'm not really sure where to go next.  I've looked at different jobs I can get with a BA in psych and I'm going to start applying to jobs soon.  I've looked at lots of different graduate programs and some of them seem interesting, but they all require a 3.0 or higher GPA.

I really want to do something relating to music, and considered music therapy, but when I've looked up graduate programs for that many of them require an undergraduate music degree, or at least proficiency in singing and lots of theory and stuff like that, which I don't really have.",18,0,2001.4056658924424,GradSchool
Are extracurricular activities important for PhD applications in a STEM field?,"I heard that applying to a science, math, or engineering related PhD program is centered around your research experience, coursework, and technical skills. How much do these PhD programs weigh your extracurricular and leadership involvement in sports, student government, or cultural organizations (nonprofessional clubs)? Does the answer depend on the PhD program you are applying to?",8,0,2003.172089503554,GradSchool
Studying with a SO bunkering off,"I'm in the process of applying to grad school. I'm unemployed at the moment, but my family and moving-related commitments keep me pretty occupied. Mostly, I need to study at least 3 hours per day for upcoming entrance exams.

It's just really hard to study intensely for my entrance exams with my SO surfing the internet or playing computer games almost all day. I know I could go to the library by myself (inconvenient without a car). I just wanted to rant and see what methods Redditors in live-in relationships have for being very productive with school while their SO is on vacation and doesn't need to do any exams or application essays.",21,2,2070.662101077628,GradSchool
Worrying about applying....,"So... I have (or will have) applied to 7 schools for graduate programs in Canada and the UK.  I have a few worries/reservations and was wondering if anyone else has gone through this or has any advice.

Did I apply to enough schools?  I didn't apply to any schools in the US because I wanted to get a different perspective from what I already have (also attended a field school in the UK and loved their method of teaching).  My specialization (geography) tends to be more respected in both countries as well.

Are my grades good enough?  I graduated with an AAS degree in GIS, so I don't have the benefit of lower level classes boosting my GPA for my BA degree.  My major GPA at my school now is around a 3.4 before the end of this semester, but I made the mistake of futzing around with my major when I got to my UG school and bombed two classes, so my overall is around a 3.1.

Did I reach too high?  The schools I applied to I hold in high regard, which I guess is a good thing.  I also didn't apply to any 'sure thing' schools.  When I applied to schools after my AAS (with a 3.86 GPA), I applied to 6 schools, two of which were tops in geography in the states for public schools.  I got in to all 6, but 3 were no brainers.  I'm worried that I don't have a no brainer in this group of schools.

How am I going to pay for all of this?  With my Canadian schools, I'm not so worried because they are funded programs, but my UK schools are not.  I have 7 months of 50% GI Bill left, but that doesn't pay for all of it, not to mention living expenses and getting there and back.  I know that professors don't expect graduate students to get jobs, so how does this work out?

tl;dr - Applying for grad school sucks.  Anyone else?",9,1,2099.30244829985,GradSchool
What are my Chances?,"So I'm applying to political science phd programs at the following colleges:

Brandeis (Jan 15 deadline) Penn State (Jan 15 deadline) University of Rochester (Jan 8) Syracuse - Maxwell School (Feb 1) Johns Hopkins (Jan 15) University of Delaware (Feb 1) University of Pittsburg (Jan 1) Georgia State (Feb 1)

I have about a 3.3 GPA undergrad, slightly higher for the poli sci classes.

My GRE scores are not so good:

166 verbal 152 math 4.0 writing

I have a pretty strong writing sample. I have at least 1, possibly 2 professors who will write me a letter, plus a GTA and a state senator.

I'm kind of discouraged. I need someone to be real and tell me if spending money on applications will be throwing good money after bad.
",3,1,2128.230272373924,GradSchool
"Looking for good / recommended american-centric databases (articles, dissertations, theses, books etc...)","Hello,

I am currently working on a thesis (Poli sci major) on the impact of america's gun culture on its cities, simple enough of course but I am attending university in Europe and most of the databases that we use/were taught to use don't have much in the way of english sources (british moreso). 

If any of you gradschoolers out here could give me your favorite / recommended websites for solid source searching I would be really appreciative. (I'm especially looking for sites with publicly available theses/dissertations revolving around the same subject so I can get a better sense of how to structure the paper itself, but of course every little bit helps)

Thanks for reading



",0,0,2139.9820547813315,GradSchool
"So, I just applied to ""the Harvard""...how do you request to fix a type-o on applications?","I'm pretty sure I just wasted that application unless someone skims my application REALLY REALLY quickly. The system has me locked out right now, so, I can't access anything. Any advice is greatly appreciated. ",6,0,2203.93088579985,GradSchool
what are the first 2 years of a PhD in sciences/engineering like,Obviously the specifics vary lab to lab but what generally should I expect for the first two years? am I going to be expected to pump out shit tons of papers?,16,1,2222.761082559109,GradSchool
Just got accepted into Walden university's MS psychology program,"I was thinking about media psyche, but I thought general will be better for now, and use a specialty for my doctorate. I'm looking forward to research and learning again. I absolutely love school and, I'm really excited.",8,0,2239.0971820961463,GradSchool
How do I go about managing my social life?,"I'm having a really hard time managing my time between my masters program and my social life. I don't want to become a hermit, but I might have to in order to make it. I get multiple invites every single day to go drink/workout/watch a movie/etc. I'd like to think I have more willpower, but I'm really struggling to say no to one or more people that want to hang out. I end up hungover half of the week and putting off work till I have to do 12 hours of homework on a Saturday. Does anyone have advice as to how to resist the urge to put off work and make my life more difficult? Should I just kill off my social life?",10,1,2429.058825614665,GradSchool
The Quals Beard,"As the date of my quals approaches (mid-March 2013), the undergrads in my lab have put forth an interesting challenge.  I will grow out my beard from 1-1-13 until my quals begin.  I will then shave off a portion each day until I show up to my oral examination clean shaven.  Readers of r/gradschool,  what facial hair styles should I try out during my exams?",4,0,2509.0586635776276,GradSchool
Where to Apply for International Relations?,"I'm having some trouble figuring out what schools to apply to for a Masters in International Relations. There are a number of lists I've seen but many of the schools are very focused on the practical side for mid-career people. I'm interested in eventually getting a PhD and being an academic. Also most lists are only of the top 5 or 10 schools so it's hard to tell how good other schools are. My application is a little mixed, some strong parts some weak parts, so I was thinking of applying to a wide range of schools but I could really use some advice in what schools to look at. My undergrad GPA isn't good, 3.14 (3.5 in the major), but my GRE scores are good, 170V 168Q 4.5. I've been living in China for the past 5 years, but only speak a tiny bit of Chinese. I'd love some advice about where to apply or any rankings to look at. Thanks.",6,0,2543.7095084850353,GradSchool
Hooking up with an undergrad in my lab?,"Is it really bad go hook up with an undergrad in you lab if you're a grad student. 
Just so everyone knows I'm a 24 year old female grad student and the undergrad is a 20 year old male. 

How much trouble would you get in if caught? 

Both parties are completely consenting.",11,0,29.053883485035215,GradSchool
How prestigious is the Salk Institute for Biological Sciences/UCSD PhD program?,,0,0,67.46691589244261,GradSchool
It's a few more weeks until grad school starts & I've been an anxious wreck.,"In 3 weeks I will be starting my first semester of grad school (aka hell) & I've been an anxious mess over it. I've been extremely on edge for almost 2 weeks now & I've been pretty jumpy as well. Sometimes it'll dull out & I'll just be in a low mood where I'm basically just in zombie mode & I'll feel like I'm slogging my way through the day with no emotional reaction to anything.

I feel like there's a state of anxiety where you're on the verge on a panic attack, but you're not quite pushed far enough to have one & that's essentially been how I'm feeling. Is it normal to be this anxious before the school year even starts?",39,0,70.87607098503521,GradSchool
Writing Comps high/drunk?,Hey everyone I have to write my comprehensive exams next month to graduate with my masters. I’m pretty tired and done with my cohort and I’m just looking to move on in life. Has anyone here ever written comps high or drunk? Either very or just s but buzzed? If so how did it go? Also even if you didn’t feel free to mention your opinions,14,0,122.75294598503521,GradSchool
Already making a high 6 figure salary in tech. Should I still pursue a Ph.D?,"Hi everyone. I'm currently a Data Scientist in San Francisco for an established tech company, and doing really well financially. I have all the amazing perks of working in SF tech, from free catered gourmet food everyday to unlimited PTOs. I get to lead really cool projects with my team that's never been done in my industry, and get to put my name on these projects that's highly, intellectually stimulating and demanding.

With that said, I've always wanted to pursue a Ph.D since I was an undergrad, as I love research, being with intellectually rich students, and potentially having the title of being a ""professor"". I've already received my Master's, and I'm at this point where if I should pursue even more degrees. From what I've read about Ph.D graduates, even getting Ph.D from STEM fields can be a career killer, since you'd become too old and overqualified for the rapidly changing tech industry. Only statistics, comp sci, and something in between like deep learning is the only way to potentially further one's career. In fact, it might be better for me to stay in the private sector and gain more industry experience, which I only have like a year or two of.

Would be great to get some suggestions from you redditors. Thanks!",22,0,146.11200848503523,GradSchool
"Guess that's it, then.","I posted a few weeks ago about planning to quit my PhD. I never went through with it because I was too chickenshit to say anything, but after another dumb fuck up, along with my inability to do experiments for awhile due to a wrist injury, my boss thinks I should quit. And I think so too, though I guess I should not be surprised that he brought up all the things that were depressing me without my saying anything. Guess I was right about how shitty I was as a student.

So to that end, I'm bailing this week. What is the leaving process like? In particular, how should I organize and leave all my data and other such things? I plan on killing myself afterwards anyway, so they won't be able to contact me for questions later. That makes me wonder, what happens to the PI's grant after that. 

I can't face anyone in my cohort, and I'm drafting up my apology emails to my old advisors and my post-bac PI who got me in in the first place. Not sure how to make amends before offing myself (though I guess that is the amend), so any suggestions are appreciated.",14,0,175.1378996887389,GradSchool
"Can someone please help me get these article and book in PDF? I cannot find them at all online, and I have my first article deadline for a Taylor and Francis journal, due in two weeks.","\- Naomi Sakai, ""Dislocation of the West and the Status of the Humanities""

\- Elza Miles, Lifeline out of Africa: The Art of Ernest Mancoba

&#x200B;

Can't find them on jstor, or anywhere else. Any help will be greatly greatly appreciated. Thank you so so much.",13,1,206.49921913318337,GradSchool
Turning down an ivy for PhD?,"I was accepted to an ivy league and a top 50 private school. Both are great options for my field, but the private school might be a better match for my interests. Even though funding at the ivy is way better (and they’ve awarded me a prestigious fellowship!) I feel like the other school is now my top choice. Is it crazy to pick this other school over the ivy?",11,1,238.9393348739241,GradSchool
Does university ranking globally mean something?," I'm talking about Computer Science. It's likelihood, that I'll study at TU Delft. The statistics reveal that TUDelft is ranked 51-100 in Computer  Science, QS World rankings.

However, if I decide to obtain a Master's degree in the US top universities  afterwards, do I have a lesser chance of getting in?",3,0,268.34373302207223,GradSchool
Pursuing a degree in spiritual counseling or dual degree in theology/counseling; non-denominational?,"Hello all, and thank you in advance for any advice you can offer.

It is my intention to pursue a master's degree in counseling with a concentration on spirituality and faith formation. I have been researching schools and nearly all of them place a heavy emphasis on the values or involvement with the Christian church. I have no problem with this as Christianity is closely in line with my own personal beliefs; however, it is not my intention to become a member of the clergy or to be affiliated with any church in particular. I am concerned that my lack of commitment to any single faith path will not go over well when seeking admissions to these programs.

I can not seem to find any programs offering broader faith-based counseling programs.

Anyone able to point me in the right direction (or perhaps help me to clarify exactly how to go about finding what I'm looking for)?

Again, thank you.",2,2,272.9812445961463,GradSchool
Ban bar charts – LaNts and Laminins,,0,2,362.12029552207224,GradSchool
How the University of Minnesota harbors sexual harassers and abusers,,1,0,370.11104783688705,GradSchool
How badly have I screwed my chances of getting into any graduate programs?,"I am attending a small liberal arts college, and due to depression and various related issues, I only have a GPA of 2.65. In computer science, my major, my average course GPA is slightly higher, at 2.75. I am a fifth year senior, so the chances of improving my GPA at my current institution are slim to none. Math courses have been the courses I have struggled with the most, having to take Calculus 1 and Proofs courses 3 times in order to pass. I don't have experience with internships. How badly have I doomed my chances of getting into any respectable graduate programs, and what would I have to do realistically in order to get in?",10,2,374.08078163318334,GradSchool
What is PhD?? Doctorate or Doctor of Philosophy,"For example, PhD in Psychology program. What does that mean?? Doctorate of Psychology program? Or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology program.

&#x200B;

EDIT: What is the correct way to spell? PhD or Ph.D.?",19,0,380.89514505910927,GradSchool
"This is my Black n' Red. There are many like it, but this one is mine.",,1,0,392.06090894799814,GradSchool
Reference letters - how are the sources checked?,"Long story short: while I graduated with good grades, I've been out of school for almost a decade and have been stuck at a job and company that I hate for the last four years (and I didn't enjoy my previous positions that much either). I am considering going back to grad school as a way to ""reroll"" my professional life.

Since I and my manager don't really get along, I don't have anyone relevant I can ask for letters of reference and I am thinking of just writing them myself. How do universities usually validate references? Setting up a domain for email/site presence, linkedin page and maybe VOIP phone numbers for a fake current employer seems feasible enough. Is this going overboard? Or are there more things needed? Company would be located in a foreign, non English speaking country to discourage contact as much as possible.",4,0,412.41347839244264,GradSchool
Applying for a PhD program in order to get a free masters (US colleges),"I want to do a masters and while I would vaguely consider doing a PhD, my current aim is really to do a masters.

&#x200B;

When I was chatting about how expensive masters programs are, a friend of mine who is currently doing a PhD suggested I apply for a PhD instead as then I would get a masters for free. She said I can always drop out after the Masters and still walk away with a degree.

&#x200B;

While what she said seemed to make sense, I assume there must be a reason people dont do this. I assume:

1. Getting into a PhD program is significantly more difficult than an equivalent masters program.
2. There must be more to getting funding than simply applying.
3. I assume considerable work would have to be put into coming up with a PhD topic even if I never pursued it.

Can someone fill me on why people dont do this? Obviously saving that much on fees would be great!",19,0,417.2479459850352,GradSchool
Seeking reassurance,"This is a long one...

Picture this: small town kid decides on a masters of urban planning in the big city. What a fantastic way to learn about a new city, its problems and have a go at trying to fix them - living the dream! I have always been a procrastinator (including right now) but at first was conscious of the fact I needed to fight those urges and get work done properly ahead of time etc. First year was great, grades slumped towards the end of the year as fatigue caught up - but no dramas overall. Managed to scrape some pretty good marks. But I was ignorant to how difficult it was supposed to be.

In second year, as part of my school's program you have the option to pursue a thesis OR partake in a research studio. The studio I nominated for was aimed at the redesign of suburban train stations for when self-driving cars show up. It was a shared project between planners and architects and we basically had free-reign to pursue any avenue we wanted. Being from a small town I quickly realised I had little understanding of the way traffic flows around stations, and asked a friend from class if he were interested to pair up on it. So we did.

But, instead of going down the route that all the other studio folks pursued, that is picking a station and talking about how to redesign things, we looked more into the political-economics of what was happening behind the scenes. Which government departments were responsible for what, and the implications this had at suburban train stations.

Meanwhile, I had started volunteering for a ~fairly~ radical transport activism organisation off-campus (remember I'm from a small, car-dependent town). What were these new ideas, citizens could get more and better transit themselves..!? Block freeways!? I got wrapped up in grad life, activism life, work and definitely burned out.

Then it was time to make a final written submission for the studio. At crunch time I couldn't write anything out. It was like I had been absent the entire time. I didn't find that I understood any of the ideas or theories that we had talked about for 12 weeks. I struggle with writing at the best of times, but this one was very bad. Between panic attacks and basically catatonia, I would sit for hours and hours and squeeze out a couple of sentences here and there. This went on for days. When my partner saw what I wrote, he was less than impressed. At one stage, we were on the phone together and he got me to read word-for-word the entire report and throughout that 30min I woke up to my own arrogance, that I shouldn't have been working on this precise project at all, given my utter lack of understanding of ~fairly~ basic political and transport infrastructure principles, and urban planning theory that should have come easy.

That moment has burned into my brain - we met up the following the day for final edits and I had a full fledged panic attack. My partner was less than impressed with the final report. Out of a possible 14k words available to us, I wrote less than ~1.5k of absolute drivel, my partner wrote ~9k. And he wrote the speech that was delivered to every transport planning academic in the faculty, who had worked on a somewhat seminal autonomous car piece, that we had adopted some of our arguments from, but even worse than that - the title of the entire project. Cringe. The grade we received for the report was spectacular because my classmate is a genius. I have been left thinking I shouldn't have passed 8th grade.

My other two subjects suffered from that horrible experience, and since that nightmare week things have just progressively got worse. Two months of constant, jarring anxiety and panic that has led me to question my very worth as a human, let alone believe that I'm in the right field. Been to GPs, counsellors, tried to relax over the break... But have been on what feels like constant panic attack. Bed and carbs are my escape. But we are now entering week 4 of the second semester and I have yet to start any of the readings, have an assignment due tomorrow (not started) and here I am, seeking reassurance that my desperation to withdraw from the course is not unwarranted. Since we got the grade, I've spoken to my classmate only once about it for fear it will waste even more of his time. I think I've been ignorant as to how difficult grad school is for most people.

TL/DR: let my classmate write our shared thesis, we got a really great mark that I don't deserve on my transcript, and now I am at a loss.",2,0,428.51516820725743,GradSchool
The most recent set of lab cartoons...,"My lab likes to capture the funny/surreal/random events that happen using the medium of cartoons. Still relatively new, but the link will take you to the most recent 4. Check out the rest via the blog/other links on our website.

[`http://lantsandlaminins.com/life-in-the-laminin-lab/cartoons-27-30/`](http://lantsandlaminins.com/life-in-the-laminin-lab/cartoons-27-30/)",0,2,485.54265663318336,GradSchool
I heard that PhDs are free? Is that true?,"I wish to eventually get an advanced degree in my area of study. People keep telling me to get a masters because I can do a 4+1 thing and probably get it done quickly. However I have heard from PhD friends of mine that their PhDs are completely subsidized whereas masters generally aren't or at least not as commonly as PhDs are.

The area of study I'm interested in is a STEM field, so is this true? How does one go about getting funding for their doctorate? Would you recommend doing a masters in between even if I would have to pay for it, or going straight into a research doctorate?",12,1,487.624797836887,GradSchool
MS CV AT CMU or MS CS at GaTech?,"Hi,

I have received two offers for Fall 2018: 
1. MS in Computer Vision at CMU (1.5 years professional program)
2. MS in CS (2 years course/project/thesis program)

As of now, I do not have any plans for PhD. I want to work in applied computer vision research after graduation. There is a big possibility of getting a TA/RA GaTech which would waive tuition and some stipend. At CMU, there is a low probability of getting a TA and even then it would not waive any tuition.

Any advice is deeply appreciated.

Thanks!",3,0,562.3856890405907,GradSchool
"Masters grad, thinking of going back for another masters because I hate working","I really want to do my own business.  I tried before but failed.   I was thinking what if I were to do grad school again, in some masters while pursuing entrepreneurship.  I feel certain masters programs aren't very tough, so I can just do that so I don't have a gap in my resume.  Thoughts?",11,2,581.8764529294797,GradSchool
Graduate students: what are your aspirations in life?,"What are your dreams and do you think about them in a logical sense. 

My friend told me that I seem to have no aspirations; that I just seem dead and have no goals. Before I started graduate school I was told that I would most likely fail, was yelled at and told I should not continue in science. My goal was to one day be a PI. Following this I decided to not continue in science until my then PI told me I deserve better and gave me a reference letter that others declined to do. I'm not MSc student....except I am just having a lot of trouble with anxiety, feeling like I don't belong, like I'm going to get fired, depression and feeling hopeless. I feel like I should just give up now. 

Your thoughts?",4,0,604.5902145035537,GradSchool
Would I get in?,"I just finished, M.S Computer Science with Thesis. An Algorithm class tanked my GPA. Graduated with only 3.12. I've applied to different Ph.D programs as I wrote an Interdisciplinary Thesis. My GRE is decent, though it's from ages ago. My Recommendation is from Dept. Chair. I applied to different programs. I got two interviews with two Professors, and it went great. One wants me to visit the University before March 10. 

I'm 26, would be 27 when I start my Ph.D. I'm Single. 

Thoughts? ",3,0,607.6169274665167,GradSchool
Help regarding Masters for Fall-2018,"I am planning on pursuing my masters course from the US this fall 18.The courses being either Engineering management or MIS.
Needed help with which universities to consider:
Toefl: 107 with 
GRE: 299

The criteria being:
Field endowment 
internship Availability/ other employment programs by the university 
Cost of living particularly the Rent  
The crowd! hate to sound like an elitist but from my experience in the undergrad school the kind of people you have around you does indeed play a major role.

Any leads would be duly Appreciated
",4,2,647.7044043183686,GradSchool
"Applying for masters with 3.3 GPA, pretty average student, do I stand any chances?","I graduated in 2015 doing psychology, and I'm  looking to either apply for a masters in Psychology or Statistics..

I've begun writing my personal statement towards a psychology program, and I'll be looking to cater them towards the schools that I am interested in.

The problem I'm worried about is that, my grades aren't super flashy or anything.. they meet the requirements , yes, but that's about it. I was a pretty average student at school, didn't really stand out too much to my professors, didn't go above and beyond what was required. So I was wondering if they'd even write me a good recommendation.

I would like to be a psychologist, and I think that having a masters in psychology would help, given my background in it already.. but I've also heard good things about statistics, where data analysis is in high demand.

If you were in my position, what would you suggest that I'd do? I don't know if I'm being unrealistic or something here, but I'm quite tired of working dead-end minimal pay jobs.. 

Or am I thinking too idealistically? ",11,2,647.7715339479981,GradSchool
General GPA or Major GPA,"When applying a Masters program, which one is more important?
Gap between my GPA and major GPA is pretty huge(3.2 and 3.6).
Will they see it on my transcription?",2,1,657.5412793183685,GradSchool
Grad School Hopeful. How are my chances?,"Hi there,

To start out I'll just say I know I'm not the best student on paper. Or even in the classroom. But, I really like to do research and hope to make a career out of it. Either in industry or academia.

I have a 2.9 GPA at the moment with a year and a half (3 semesters) left. I have 2 years of research experience.1 year of it was hands on in a wet lab doing molecular biology techniques from Western Blots to qPCR. Lot of familiarity with bacteria and mice samples. Not a lot of experience with microscopes and the like though.

I have 1 year of bioinformatics and mathematical modeling work (which I want to do in grad school and beyond). Human subjects so lots of data. I can code in Java, Python, R, MATLAB. Have experience in XPPAUT and the like.

My last year of my bachelor degree will see me doing a 1 year independent research project where I'm hopeful to learn even more new skills and maybe put out something that I can be proud of.

I have no publications as of yet as the projects are still on going. The wet lab I worked with a grad student who chased a dead end. The bioinformatics work is being finished last I heard and will be submitted before too long (I was told I would be included for the paper. Don't know if that will happen, but whatever I'll take the experience if it doesn't happen).

I have one semester ahead of me with a chance to bring my GPA above 3.0 then I'll have my research project to do for graduation.


I'd like to either go to a bioinformatics program, or systems biology program for graduate school. I've been looking around for programs with researchers that line up with my interests. I'm reaching out to PI's that say its okay to contact them before applying to get to know their work better and introduce myself.

Okay, after that long introduction, my question is basically this. Is my GPA too low? Even if I get to know a professor and their work, will my GPA kill me? I have two to three solid letters of recommendation from professors I have studied under and researched with. I'm a non-traditional student (I'm 33, married for over 10 years) and have had jobs outside of science. Will these help? Any advice other than study hard and hope for the best? 

Thank you for your time.",6,0,658.9574135776278,GradSchool
"How hard engineering PhD could be for science graduate, in the field of environmental engineering?","Hi, I have finished my master in Environmental program, with thesis work on the topic of environmental microbiology. I had some research experience in environmental biotechnology such as resource recovery, wastewater degradation, water engineering etc. I want to join PhD in field of environmental engineering which matches with my previous research work and I know some Prof. in that field. But I'm afraid that course work and curriculum would be difficult for me. How does engineering coursework differ from science coursework? Does difficulty level be too high? Does Prof in engineering department is ice-cold? ",2,0,660.262911262813,GradSchool
UG School affect GPA Interpretation,"I have a 3.7 GPA at Georgia Tech in Electrical Engineering. I have around 14 more credits left so my GPA will probably end up somewhere between 3.65-3.75. I have already been accepted to Georgia Tech’s 4+1 masters but would really like to go to a school like (Stanford/CalTech/Berkley/CMU/Penn) for a change of scenery and new experience. 

I know that my GPA isnt great. But does the fact that Georgia Tech has a reputation of being difficult bear any weight when considering my GPA. ",3,0,668.2462445961463,GradSchool
How to pay for classes...help,I'm 9 classes away from getting my MBA which comes out to 27k. How the hell can I pay for it without taking on more loans. Undergrad was free thanks to my athletic scholarship but I'm already 14k deep and it's already causing me stress. ,5,0,864.9943117257759,GradSchool
What Did I Learn Being A GRA (Graduate Research Assistant) At MS&T?,,1,0,868.5091496887388,GradSchool
How are the Female PhD Candidates doing?,I am just starting with my PhD and I keep thinking how much I risk not being able to have a family in the future (I'll be 31 when I graduate). I am single and currently not dating anyone. This adds up with my anxiety together with the thought of future job opportunities. I know there are a lot of horror stories in grad school but I am hoping to hear some good stories from fellow female Phds,34,10,1420.3779344109612,GradSchool
21F beginning at an Ivy League for PhD. I'm nervous... any tips?,"I was recently accepted to an Ivy League fully-funded PhD program (ranked top 5 by the NRC) in my field. I just turned 21 years old and will be graduating with my BA in the coming weeks. I skipped a Master's program and went straight to PhD. The average age of someone getting a PhD in the discipline is around 40 years old. I know I'm smart, but I can't help but feel like I won't fit in. Can anyone offer advice for how to mentally/emotionally prepare myself for starting in the fall? Could anyone share a similar experience and tell me how it went? I'd love to hear it! Thanks in advance for the response!",15,9,1976.7870316331835,GradSchool
"How many papers have you published, what year are you in, and what is your subject?",As title says. If you are doing a PhD and you got papers published in your masters how many have you published in just your PhD. If a masters student how many also in this degree?,71,12,801.0322515405907,GradSchool
Saw this on r/AdviceAnimals. An interesting thought.,,2,7,2021.7800756146648,GradSchool
"Grad students, what are you researching? (x-post from /r/AskAcademia)","Curious undergrad here. It seems that a lot of degrees for graduate students, like Master's and Doctorate, require research in that particular major. But to be honest, I'm having a hard time figuring out what's left to be researched. From my perspective it looks like we know just about all there is to know, with exceptions possibly in medicine, astronomy, and quantum physics. Yet colleges and universities all over the world have students and professors doing some sort of research. Help enlighten me - what are you researching? What is there that we still don't know? And how might your research be useful in the future?",64,8,2348.9248788554055,GradSchool
A Trump supporter explains rising conservative anger at American universities,,49,8,687.1229459850352,GradSchool
"My grad school journey up to this day, abridged","Bottom line: I believe that everything is part of God's plan. If you're not religious, this may sound silly to you, but I don't think there's another explanation for how everything worked out.

Prologue: I came into grad school wanting to do analog design. As an undergrad, circuits and electronics were my favorite thing ever. My GPA and GRE scores were terrible, so I knew that the only way to get into the program of my dreams was to have a professor accept me as a PhD student. That professor was my advisor. He was so cool, it seemed, despite me not having research experience or relevant industry experience.

Chapter 1: I was so happy to be learning the fundamentals and getting some exposure to research. My advisor was a much more serious guy than when we first met, but I think it had to do with the fact that now it's strictly business. I was working, learning, taking classes, he'd remind me to focus on classes, and things were okay.

Chapter 2, part 1: 1.5 years in, my advisor put me on a serious project midway through the fourth semester. I was already drowning; I had two *heavy* classes (that he told me to take), and I was also his TA. On top of that, my husband was having some weird health issues (he's infinitely better now, thank God). On top of that, I lacked the necessary background for the project. Thus came constant scolding, belittling, and I became so numb to his anger that it wasn't affecting me anymore. On top of that, I was not motivated (he never motivated me; he would discourage me), and I felt like I had zero direction. Any idea I had on top of that, he would dismiss. ""That's irrelevant."" ""You're distracting yourself with this."" ""This isn't publishable material."" ""That's not a contribution.""

Chapter 2, part 2: Once the semester ended, I was able to focus more on my research. There was a big gap between where I was and where I needed to be, and I was trying *hard* to close the gap. However, the project's speed didn't stop for me (very understandably so), and the professors have already devised an idea. So at that point there was not much that I could do other than optimize what they already had and implement that on chip. My advisor would tell me, ""You're not being a PhD student; you're being a technician."" ""You are expected to come up with your own ideas instead of waiting for us to tell you what to do next."" ""You are just doing what you are told."" ""You don't need the label of a PhD student if you're doing what a technician would do."" ""If I can do in an hour what you're doing in four days, why am I asking you to do it?"" Although he's technically in the right, it's not exactly helping me that he keeps dismissing my ideas and I can never meet his unrealistic expectations of me. I'm not a genius. I don't have decades of industry experience. I will always be lagging behind in some way. He also said ""At this rate, I don't see a PhD happening with you. You can always do an MS and make a minor contribution. There are still as many jobs.""

Chapter 2, part 3: I was a fool to think things were going to get better. In fact, after I submitted the tapeout, he said ""Your contribution has been minimal. This is not the contribution of a PhD student. I don't want to completely dismiss you; I want to talk about some options first. You can still work on this project, but I will only continue to support you if you become an MS student. You can also do an MEng, which is still an advanced degree. You can also continue your PhD under a different advisor. Either way is fine with me. So, think about it, and let me know. Consider this final block for this project your last chance, and it can be your MS thesis."" It's clear my advisor doesn't believe in me. So I thought, ""I can just get my MS under him and continue my PhD elsewhere."" But I don't want to deal with him much longer. And I didn't know who to turn to.

Chapter 3, part 1: My friend had his prelim last week, and his friend had pretty much the exact same experience. I call that guy my guardian angel. Then he told me who to go to and why to go there. So I took his advice because my current advisor is a jerk and I don't see a fruitful future in academia if I continue in analog design. For the latter, here is why. To publish a paper in analog,

1. come up with the circuit/technique
2. simulate it and change it until it works with the results you need
3. lay it out
4. pass all fabrication checks (DRC)
5. pass the comparison between layout and schematic connections (LVS)
6. simulate the layout extraction (post-layout sim)
7. change the layout until you get the results you need while not violating any of the DRC/LVS checks
8. send the chip for fabrication and wait for them to send it back to you (in my case, it takes 6 months just for fabrication due to the BiCMOS process)
9. design the PCB
10. send the PCB over for fabrication and wait for them to send it back to you
11. once you get the chip, send it out for dicing/packaging (they bond the pads to the pins) and wait for them to send it back to you
12. send your chip with your PCB to a facility so they can put it together and wait (or DIY but the former is recommended)
13. get the measurements from the lab
14. start writing the manuscript

After that, you know what's next. But steps 1-13 altogether take *at least* a year. In a year, I could be publishing new ideas! The analog program here is tailored more for the industry, not academia--and if I wanted to work in the industry, I would've gotten my MEng and gotten out of there. I want to use this opportunity as a PhD student to start building my CV *before* I graduate, not after.

Chapter 3, part 2: My research interests for that reason have taken a divergent path into KLJN electronics. I talked to the professor my guardian angel recommended, and he is actively doing research in that area, it turns out. He accepted me as kind of a refugee PhD student, so once this semester is over, I'll be working with him. I talked to my advisor about this and he took it very well; the only things he needs from me before we part ways are the converter and the report. I also wanted to make sure I wasn't making the same mistake; my future advisor's students are happy to work with him, he works actively with his students, and he is super encouraging. I could be wrapping up with an MS thesis, but I don't want to deal with my current advisor for longer than I need to.

TL;DR: Because of my present and future, I made big decisions.",2,4,15.269705244294473,GradSchool
Why is like 80% of what I read here about depression and other mental illnesses?,"I grabbed my MA a while ago and although I did not do a Ph.D, I can understand that Ph.D is a mentally challenging endeavor. But most of what I read here seems to be far more than that, reporting abuse from advisors, immense desires to quit halfway, and severe depression bordering on contemplating suicide. It's almost like gradschool subreddit is the only place for them to relieve all of their mental anxieties. 

Is Ph.D that bad? I don't remember my grad experiences being that brutal. I remember there being a lot of things to appreciate. Why can't I find more posts about those? 

&#x200B;

some background: I received my MA from an Ivy League couple years ago, working now in San Fran tech as a data scientist.",19,5,48.12881404059077,GradSchool
"Data science course, much wow",,2,7,728.6775756146649,GradSchool
"The REAL gender gap: Men lag in humanities, languages, graduate fields of study - The College Fix",,27,0,742.9331195961463,GradSchool
ANOVA weekend,,2,0,1124.2539182072576,GradSchool
"Dr. Peter Hotez, giving his loving reassurance on all your publications.",,3,3,1601.7799020035538,GradSchool
Not introducing self on incoming students page,"Seems like a lot of schools these days use Facebook to introduce incoming students to a program. I've joined the Facebook group, but I've hardly participated and I still have not introduced myself. I simply have no desire to do so. Everyone is you know, doing an introduction but I don't see the point. 

Anyone else felt this way? ",42,0,1625.9484205220722,GradSchool
This is when you know you're in too deep,,3,0,2020.705087188739,GradSchool
Difficult Decisions: How did you pick you're program?,"So I've done the interviews and came out pretty good, I got a couple offers for PhD programs including my current department and my first choice of the external ones. I have no idea what to do. On one side I have what is a better department and two strong supervisors but in a topic I have little solid experience in, despite this they seem keen. On the other is my current supervisor with my current work which I do enjoy and have more experience in. For the former I'm afraid of the possibility of landing in something I wont enjoy, for the later I'm afraid of taking the easy route and relaxing into bad habits. 

So what lines of thought went into your choice of program? Any advice would be greatly appreciated.",13,3,2041.158976077628,GradSchool
"Unpopular Opinion: The concept of imposter syndrome is being used to encourage people who are not fit for their program. Yes, not everyone who gets accepted into a program is cut out for it. This is not to say that Imposter syndrome doesn’t exist, just that it is being used dangerously. Thoughts?",,13,19,390.1877260776278,GradSchool
"If your molecular biology textbook turns you on, you might be spending too much time studying for comps.",,0,19,1465.6284205220725,GradSchool
Staying a graduate student until I get kicked out (Or graduate through a glitch in the system)?,"I don't know why am I allowed to be such a shitty student. I have produced very little in my first year of research here. I presented some ""preliminary"" work once, that's it. I am not completely lost, but my direction is never clear. I just get lost in the fog of my own work. 

Why haven't I been kicked out yet? Why? This is driving me crazy that I'm still allowed to be here! It doesn't make sense. I have thousands of lines of code across 3 projects; Some of it works and some of it doesn't. Miraculously I'm still getting paid to show up every day and work.... 

I don't believe grad school research, as a process, holds a candle to what it could be (at least in my experience.). I wanted to feel like I'm part of a lab with clear goals and systemic procedures. I feel like my program has less organization and structure than it should (e.g. no weekly meetings, just whenever either my advisor or I decide to have one). I wanted to 
1) be mentored on how to conduct research.
2) walk away from grad school with a clear goal of how to conduct research in my field.
3) produce research I care about.

I will probably leave grad school, even if I graduate, without any of these. It makes me want to quit right now.

But here's the catch: I'm using my PhD as a vehicle to change fields, which I didn't decide to do until last year. And even 2/3 of my projects are tangential to what I really care about. If I don't graduate or get any pubs out before quitting/dropping out, I'll have no credentials to work in my field in industry, unless I hilariously go back for a masters after dropping out of a PhD program (Pretty sure I don't have enough for a masters as it stands.). What's my motivation if I no longer believe that these three projects are relevant to me? 

So between working on projects I don't care about that are tangentially related to what I *really* want to do, my options are 
1) Quit outright, no masters.
2) Keep working until I get kicked out, so that hopefully I have enough skill to find a half decent job when I do finally get booted. 
3) If my some miracle I graduate, then whatever I guess.

/rant

I don't know what I'm expecting from you guys. I see some pretty upset posts here, some similar to this one, and like a broken record, /r/GradSchool shouts things like ""You can do it"",  or ""Don't we all feel this way."". But really, I am entertaining the notion that leaving might be the right thing to do. I don't think I was prepared for long-haul, PhD research with virtually zero guidance before or during.",12,12,1574.7472399665166,GradSchool
Reality Check: You Will End Up as an Adjunct Professor,,51,29,2226.2649598739245,GradSchool
Being very fit in academia,"I'm finishing my first year in a philosophy graduate program. I love everything about it EXCEPT sometimes I get the impression (or at least worry) that my fitness is affecting my relationship with other grad students and profs.

I've been lifting, excercising, and watching my nutrition very closely for years now. So to put it bluntly, I'm in great shape with excellent muscle development (fitness modeling (or some other) have been serious propositions for me), and I stand out in that respect in academia generally and my department in particular. Sometimes I get the sense that some of my colleagues and profs judge me rather negatively on that basis. I'm concerned that my lifestyle might affect a (potential) career in the academy. I've wanted to earn a PhD for nearly a decade now, and I started my fitness program years before actually commmitting to graduate school.

Has anyone else witnessed this phenomenon before? Thoughts or comments appreciated.",51,13,905.2622052442946,GradSchool
Grad school isn’t so bad.,"I just started grad school and am feeling under-challenged. I’ve learned, it’s not because the program isn’t valid. But there isn’t as much work as I expected, deadlines aren’t so immediate, I’m not as stressed as I thought I would be. Really, I’m not seeing much difference between undergrad and grad at this point. 

I’m really shocked because I jumped into an adjacent field that I’m really not qualified for. I was surprised to even get in the program so easily, and I was prepared for a huge learning curve. Now my imposter syndrome is kicking in and I feel like I’m not applying myself enough. 

Has anyone else felt like this? Is it going to get more difficult?

EDIT: Thanks to all of you that are amazingly supportive, have advice to share, and so much encouragement. You’re all rockstars!!! Not so much to the (minority) responders who are trying to make me feel like a skinny person mocking overweight people. Jeez, y’all, get a grip. ",58,55,387.4494043183685,GradSchool
How to suck at your PhD,,25,23,1656.3380848739241,GradSchool
Fuck tenure.,That's all. Good night.,6,14,455.79828163318336,GradSchool
Top 42 books for PhD students,,3,16,865.0456427442945,GradSchool
"my pi is, sadly, not very smart","hi. any advice for how to switch a pi with grace? first yr grad student here. i already went to my chair with concern but they seem to be ignoring my emails. i guess it's because of their field they lack social skills (STEM grad here).

i don't mean to bash, but i need to look out for no. 1 because my pi is not very smart. i don't know how they got this far because it seems like luck. they might have had something going for them back in ancient history when they got their phd but not anymore. 

i chose their lab ebcause of my bachelors' thesis aligned perfectly with their research and it seemed like a perfect fit but honestly they don't have a clue. they have gotten by mostly due to the help of their grad students and the smart ones all graduated. i don't want to burn any bridges because their reputation is sterling and would help my reapplication to med school. srsly regretting not accepting my safety school right now. do you think this would look bad on my reapp?",10,0,1070.3435131146648,GradSchool
PI doesn't realize my undergraduate career exists,"I am a first year PhD student. Recently, there is a scholarship that both myself and another PhD student are trying to apply for. We approach the PI regarding the scholarship and she implies that she might have to pick between us, which is fine if he's the superior candidate, then he clearly deserves the nomination. What irked me was that she turns to the other student, who did undergraduate research with her and says ""you probably have more research experience."" 

I have done undergraduate research since freshmen year, and took 1 year off between school to be a lab tech - totaling 5 years of research experience. This has culminated in a paper that is mostly written and will hopefully be published in the next few months, numerous posters and meetings, and many techniques and protocols learned. Current PI does not know any of this. I feel like just because I did my undergraduate research at another institution, the current PI feels like it doesn't exist. Is there any worth in bringing this to her attention? Or am I just overthinking it? 

Edit: Update: I'm not sure if anyone's even still reading this post, but I just had the conversation with the PI and she was very receptive to this information. Thank you to everyone who gave wonderful advice. You guys are great! ",21,8,1372.2158510776278,GradSchool
Truth and academia,Was in a very heated debate circle today. What does truth mean to you? What is your academic struggle today?,23,8,1448.4892307072573,GradSchool
As Seen by..Science edition,,0,9,2175.1460246887386,GradSchool
Does anyone have the opposite of imposter syndrome where you're delusionaly optimistic about your own skill level?,"I didn't have the best past(I had a very abusive father, I've talked about it in my post history before). It was various things, but my issues lasted until I got into undergrad. I went through 5 years of therapy to get better, and it helped, but a lot of that therapy was about the abuse itself. There was an issue that I never fully reconciled and it was my belief in myself.

To find the strength to keep going, I had to believe that I could be at the top of my field. I had to do that when entering grad school otherwise I knew I wasn't going to succeed. My GPA started rising a lot during my last years, but my cumulative GPA was a 2.8 in physics for my undergrad. When I got into grad school I got solid As in all with my classes except quantum mechanics(B+). Along with my GPA being much higher, my research skills got much better. I'm a computational particle physicist and I'm going to publish a paper on string theory derived supersymmetry and finding dark matter. I had an interview with a NASA contractor for a position of modelling orbital debris using computational models at one of their centers. For comparison's sake I could barely do undergrad E and M in 2017. This was my dream and I have a lot of intrinsic motivation to do it but bridging the gap between that wasn't easy. I found the strength to do that by having a genuine belief that I will be at the top of my field someday despite a lot of people saying I was delusional for believing it. If you asked me who was a better physicist between me and Albert Einstein, I'd say Einstein for now, but I don't see any reason why I can't be as good as him by the end of my life. He's a human being, and I'm a human being. So there shouldn't be any reason I can't reach his level.

&#x200B;

Maybe I am delusional for having this mentality, but I found it's very useful. I found by being anxious I would enter this cycle where I would doubt myself, spend time doubting myself, not actually do any work and then increase my anxiety of the work that wasn't done. For me the solution was very simple. Stop doubting myself and just fully tackle my stress and my work without any hesitation.

It ended up being a very powerful thing for me and I noticed it made me feel a lot less intimidated by things. I know when things are hard, but just because it's hard doesn't mean I can't do it. And that's all there is to it.

&#x200B;

So what do you all think. I know I'm very much on the opposite spectrum of Imposter Syndrome, but in many ways it was something I needed to beat my past and something that's still very useful to me today.",5,4,51.85735570725743,GradSchool
Gotta have hobbies.,,5,4,521.1620895035537,GradSchool
Almost done with a 4.0.,"I'm in Emerson's Publishing and Writing Popular Fiction MFA program. This past term was really difficult for me in terms of work load, but here it is, end of the term, and I maintained my 4.0. I've got Summer II and fall, and I'm done. And in those semesters, two writing workshops and my thesis. Folks, I can see the light at the end of the tunnel!",0,5,525.188374225776,GradSchool
Inappropriate Jokes in Grad School,"Some group members are inappropriate and I want to limit interaction with them. Sadly, I can't. I am so sick of the sexual jokes and the sex talk. I am pretty reserved when it comes to those kind of things, and I thought people would be more respectful in a professional setting. What gives? Maybe I need to lighten up and start talking about orgasms, sexual acts, and what turns me on. *Im not serious!* I just wish people could wait to get home to say these things. Anyone else deal with this, or anyone else bothered by these jokes? If not, how do you deal with these comments?

Edit: Reporting this would not do a damn thing for me. ",5,0,555.9256195961462,GradSchool
Academia and this sub have blown my mind,"I finished my undergrad a year ago and wasted a year of graduate school just padding my resume (so not exactly wasted). I got into a PhD program that I start in August and soon after, discovered this sub. There's always been a disconnect to me between students and professors (or doctors in general) because of the education difference. I've always put doctors on a pedestal because I envy their expertise. 

This sub shows me that doctors are just people like me that have put in the work. They use reddit and like to have a good time. I went to a conference and discovered that the professors I performed research under liked to get drunk and do karaoke. It made me feel so much better about my degree pursuit. I no longer feel like doctors were on some other level than me when they started. Just regular people with big ambitions! 

So thanks, r/gradschool!",4,3,1224.0272168183685,GradSchool
10 reasons getting your PhD is just like going to Hogwarts.,,4,0,1511.0297168183688,GradSchool
Is it ok to start a Ph.D. just for the sake of looking for a job in that country and then quit?,"Hello r/GradSchool,

I've been recently accepted for a Ph.D. in a country where I would like to (eventually) work and have a career. My ""ulterior motive"" to start this Ph.D. is that I would have a decent stipend to survive, I would already be living in the country I want to look for a job in and I would have enough time (at the beginning) to focus more on building a good skillset and a portfolio for my potential employers more than the courses I should take.

~~Honestly I already know, and I am 100% sure, I don't want to pursue a Ph.D. (at least in the area I've been accepted for)~~ **Edit**: I should rephrase this as ""So far I'm 100% sure I wouldn't like pursuing a Ph.D. and I feel I should have a plan B ready from the beginning in case things go south"". Mind you I do respect the academic world and I don't mean to offend graduate students by asking this. I just want to have a rational discussion on what the cons would be in case I decide to do so (**which, I repeat, have not done yet. I still have plenty of time to think about accepting the offer or not**). So my question is: is this pattern ""common""? Apart from being a disappointment for the people involved in recruiting me (i.e. future advisor(s) ) are there any pragmatic consequences? For example should I return the stipends I got? Is quitting half-way (e.g. after 1-2 years) more ""acceptable"" than quitting after, say, 3 months?

(Just to clarify: as long as I'm officially employed by the university I would, of course, make an effort to work hard on whatever the project is. Just because I'm planning to quit doesn't mean I wouldn't contribute for the time they are paying me!)

Any past experience similar to this one? Advice? Thank you!",31,0,1693.4900293183684,GradSchool
Question for female STEM PhDs- How best to craft email asking for more money upon receiving your first offer letter for a non-academic research job?,"Please help!  While it has been a struggle to even achieve one offer - and I feel super grateful, ALSO I feel it's possible to hustle more money and maybe as a women I'm being intentionally low-balled... ",8,6,1802.732483022072,GradSchool
Post #6 Control Your Image (Social vs. Reality) - My PhD Process: How I Survived a PhD in the Biological Sciences and Succeeded Afterward,,2,2,1860.6467307072576,GradSchool
"Concerned Parent - Daughter is about to enter PhD program, I have questions!","Hello everyone,

Fairly new user to Reddit so please bear with me here if I happen to screw something up!  My daughter got accepted into one of her top choices for PhD for a Neuroscience program and will be starting this August! I am ecstatic that she got what she wanted but I would be lying to you all if I said I was not concerned or that I didn't have questions! 

I figured the best way to get answers was from people who have completed their PhD or in the process of it, which led me to the /r/GradSchool.  With this I was hoping you guys can answer some of the questions I had:

* Daughter is interested in pursuing academia route but I have read how difficult it is to break into it contrary to popular belief. I also read a lot of PhD's go into industry. How's the market for PhD students in industry now, especially since undergrads are competing in the market nowadays?

* The school she is going to is funding her for 5 years.  Is it possible that a PhD can take longer to complete?

* How is the job market in general for PhD grads now?

* What exactly is a ""post-doc""?

I would appreciate any other feedback/comments/insight as well.


 ",6,0,1942.251371910961,GradSchool
facial piercings and grad school?,"I'm moving to Portland, Oregon to start a biomed doctoral program in a few months. I'm pretty excited about finally being off on my own and I've been thinking about a septum piercing bc I think it would really flatter my round small nose. I feel like if anything, Portland would be the culturally safest place to do it. I already spoke to a grad student there with visible tattoos and a monroe piercing and the faculty seem to love her, but again it's the Pacific Northwest. I would definitely remove the piercing for anything remotely professional. Do you think grad school is a relatively accepting culture for things like unconservative haircuts and colors, piercings, and tattoos? In a casual everyday context, not like for defenses or interviews obviously. Does it differ from field to field?",15,5,2002.7649830220723,GradSchool
Some humour for you? While looking up impact factors...,,6,10,1864.954300151702,GradSchool
"Most of the time, when I'm grading papers, I just want to cry. This was not one of those times.",,3,7,2028.0378070961465,GradSchool
I've been applying to PhD schools for the last 5 years and no acceptance... I'm feeling pretty dejected today... Any advice?,"Back-story:

This year will be my 5th year applying for a PhD. I’m not sure what I am doing wrong that I can’t get into anywhere. I have two master’s degrees (unfortunately no thesis and done online). I have had multiple interviews, but never any acceptance letters. At one interview, I was told that I had well written personal statement (unlike this post) and that my ideas for a thesis are great. I’ve also been told several times that I am very qualified. After one interview, I contacted the university, and I asked what my status was. They told me that, although my ideas were good and I was qualified, what I wanted to do could not be done at that university. I want to work on specific project that combines different disciplines (basic idea: using systems biology to discover how cancers escape the immune response).

Stats:

Undergrad GPA: 3.2
Master’s GPA 3.5 -3.7 depending on the calculation
Research: Undergraduate chemical research (didn’t really feel like I was doing much independent thought and contribution, but maybe that’s how most undergrad work is), and an internship (doing basic lab work)
GRE: Quant: 70 something percentile, Verbal: 90 something, Writing 3.0 (kind of messed that up)
References: Undergrad professors and masters professors

Now that you’re filled in what should I do? 

Should I retake the GRE or is it not that important (to me my quantitative score is low for the field I want to join)?

I’ve been trying to find US PIs that fit my research, but haven’t found something that does both the systems biology and the immunology part of what I want to work on for a thesis. Do I need to find somebody’s lab that does pretty much exactly what I want to do, or how does that work? Also, how does funding of a project work for a PhD student?

How should I go about applying for fellowships?

Do I need more research experience, and if so how do I get it?

Should I contact professors and offer to do volunteer work for their lab, or does that come off wrong?

Is there anything else that I should do or know about to get in to a PhD program?
",46,9,2342.061499225776,GradSchool
Every time I look in the mirror,,8,22,1319.6604691331834,GradSchool
Accepted.,"I needed to shout this from the roof tops of Reddit. I got into the Clinical Neuropsychology program at X and cannot wait to begin classes in September. I already work in the field at a hospital and in private practice, but am so so so psyched, lucky, and proud of myself for this journey.

The admissions process drove me to my primary care physician, two urgent care clinics on separate occasions, a psychiatrist, to purchase a blood pressure monitor (I returned it, I'm fine), tears, laughter, fear, anger, and everything in between.

I wish all of my fellow applicants the best of luck in their endeavors. This is a very stressful time and I want each and every one of you to keep your mental and physical health a top priority. Graduate school is an incredible journey and I urge each of you to **enjoy** it.",2,11,215.14567746651667,GradSchool
"Grad school prof wants me (22/F) to co-author, feeling pressured, any tips?","My grad school prof wants me to co-author two papers which he plans to submit to peer-reviewed journals this year. My professor is brilliant in his own right, has two PhDs and has expressed his desire to help me out and get published because he believes I have a knack in writing. He's been published multiple times in international peer-reviewed journals in the past and I trust his word. I'm (22/F) a first year grad student, I have never been published in a journal before and am feeling really, really pressured by my professor's expectations and standards. Do any of you have tips or advice on how I should go about this? Mainly, I just feel like an impostor and, welp, I don't ever want to disappoint my professor, especially since he saw something in me enough to mentor me. It's more of the pressure, really, and the fear of disappointing him that is messing with my head :\\ ",7,5,206.7355501517019,GradSchool
I'm having a hard time applying to grad school because the whole thing feels like such a greedy racket,"All the application fees, test fees, sending test fees - it's outrageous",13,7,1055.1838140405907,GradSchool
I hate doing science.,"It is not the scientific method itself, or the research topics.

I simply hate:

1. having to take bullshit from article reviewers who read my manuscripts know as much of a topic as I do.
2. seeing how science has been converted into a commodity at the service of ""scientific journals"" and scientists converted into nothing but content creators. The only difference between a 9gag user posting a picture and a scientist is that the scientist has to pay for submitting his material
3. dealing with psychopaths on a daily basis (to be noted, 100% of the psychopaths I met in the scientific environment were women and in 80% of the labs where I have been I met one that caused me trouble)
4. fucktard PIs who look for PhDs with the skills and expertise of postdocs and afford themselves to treat you like thrash before, during and after you enter their lab (if you are admitted with a stipend)
5. funding scarcity, which is a problem WORLDWIDE. There is no country where science is not in red numbers
6. that science is supposed to be challenging due to its intrinsic nature, not due to points 1 to 5

Simply put: FUCK YOU SCIENCE, GO FUCK YOURSELF. I quit and every day that passes I feel even better of giving you the finger.",9,0,1417.8936635776276,GradSchool
Redditer admits faking data in Academia and then deletes post (his article was archived),"This is why Academia is losing reputation.

https://web.archive.org/web/20151006060621/https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/3no7d6/my_dark_confession_i_fudged_data_as_an_undergrad/

I saved the link with the expectation that the author will not escape unpunished. If I can trace the place where he faked the data I will report him.

The author of the thread is User Falser8.",21,0,1470.7046820961464,GradSchool
Admitted! ... But I have 16 more applications out there. What do I do next?,"Hey everyone! There is hope for us all! I just got my first letter of acceptance into a Ph.D. program in Political Science. This particular school is a contender no matter what, for their faculty is directly related to my research interests. However, I definitely want to hear from the rest of the schools. 

Should I contact this school? 
Do I ask about funding? 
Do I reply to this e-mail? 

YAY!",9,5,1721.2650061702204,GradSchool
"I am a professor in Connecticut. This year, a battle between politicians and teachers is heating up. If we lose, our university can be controlled by those who never taught. Please share this student-film and send a message to politicians.",,4,30,1385.1470200591093,GradSchool
I spent over 12h in the lab today. It is also my cakeday.,"I feel like I need some obligatory post about it being my cakeday, so since I haven't posted so much as a comment today....

Woooo! Two years. Also somehow got invited to be a mod of /r/science not too long ago!

Someone please shout at me how I should go back to tapping out some code now. Or alternatively ask some questions and I'll be happy to entertain an answer",6,34,1769.8734205220721,GradSchool
I think I blew my chance at my dream school and there's nothing I can do,"More-so a rant than anything. I have a dream school/ PhD program with a PI who is willing to take me on; which sounds great, but I don't meet the academic requirements. The criteria is a 3.3 cGPA at all levels of study, which is frustrating because my undergraduate average is exactly 3.29 and my graduate average (MSc) is a 3.8. It sucks being penalized for being stupid in undergrad; I've grown so much as a student/researcher sigh Any advice?",9,3,1206.2859089479982,GradSchool
World's Most Worthless Grad Student Tries Not to Ruin His Life,"Also posted in r/getdisciplined. 

I was always a ""bright"" kid, who got praised for being ""smart"" rather than working hard (which, come to find out now, ain't great). 

Was inspired in college to become a music teacher, pref. at the community college level (where my favorite teachers taught). Graduated with honors from a Bachelors' in music program, then went off to get my Masters' -- first bad decision was to sign on the dotted line and go into a program with no scholarship, paying for everything with loans, but that's by-the-by. 

I've spent the last three years fucking up, by which I mean procrastinating my thesis, wearing out my faculty's patience, getting ""reassigned"" from my TA job, and getting the lowest grades possible without flunking out of the program (capped off last semester by a big shiny 'C,' which is like a D in undergrad). 

Everything I read says that my situation simply ""doesn't happen."" To be clear: I'm aware that this is all 100% my fault -- if your response is just incredulity or wanting to yell at me, please reconsider. I'm in for another semester and a half -- I just feel a need to reach out anonymously and ask for any advice you can give me about how to move forward without fucking my life up completely. ",10,3,1325.1162793183685,GradSchool
Mental Health Sucks,"Man, grad school is rewarding sometimes, but also sucks some times. So does mental health. As well as crippling perfectionism. The combo of all three can just be defeating.

Please spare me the posts about the fact that I should be thankful that I have the opportunity for higher education, that I have a roof over my head, that I'm financially stable. Believe me, I am, I'm just frustrated, and just thought I would try and let others know how much I am aside from just by boyfriend who is a saint and a trooper for trying to get me through all of this. 

Truly hope you all have a good rest of your Friday. I'm going to try my best and turn it into a good one, too.",3,3,1334.2098441331834,GradSchool
Academia Deserves its Crisis,,3,2,1476.7289066331832,GradSchool
Why an economics PhD might be the best graduate program,"I've been toying with the idea of doing an economics PhD for years. A recent profile on Economics PhDs by 80000hours.org says that it may in fact be the best grad program, and keep open a lot of future options: https://80000hours.org/2015/06/why-an-economics-phd-might-be-the-best-graduate-program/

I think I agree with this for the most part - but I'm pretty biased as someone who thoroughly enjoys the field (and currently works in it). What do you think? Also, do you think the benefits/advice regarding the benefits of economics (or any) PhD programs is quite different once you reach the end of your 20s? ",6,4,1529.9337214479983,GradSchool
publication: do i need to get my PhD?,"I have ideas related to linguistics that I want to spend the next couple years developing. Personally, I feel like I can conduct sufficient research on the topic without the aid of a graduate program, but I'm concerned that research done in this fashion will not be taken seriously by ""academia."" 

**Assuming that the publication/research in question is in fact valid**, and adds something new to the current body of knowledge (this could be in any field), do you still **need** to be a member of a university/grad program in order for peer-reviewed journals (or academia in general) to publish your work? As in, will it be judged on the quality of its content rather than the authority of which it was conducted under? 

My reason for asking is that I would like to avoid the **piling on of debt** from a graduate program if I can, and I feel I work better on my own anyway. Obviously going this route I forego the advice and constructive criticism that a university setting provides, but I've already spent a few years researching this topic on my own, and feel confident I can continue forward without making errors/assumptions. But I am worried that being a formal member of academia is almost a requirement for participating in discussion of the current body of knowledge.",45,0,1564.4175640405908,GradSchool
"Super desperate /r/GradSchool, can you guys help?","I'm sorry if this kind of post isn't allowed. I'm pretty desperate.

NSERC is holding a video contest for Canadian science & engineering grad students, and today is the last day. The winners are decided by public votes, in the form of: views on YouTube, shares on Facebook, and shares on Twitter.  I don't expect anyone on Reddit to start sharing my video, but if you could click the link and watch it I would super appreciate it!  (The video is on my lab's research.)

My video: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dHM-9FoOlw0&feature=youtu.be](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dHM-9FoOlw0&feature=youtu.be)

If you're interested, the contest page is here: [http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/ScienceAction/index_eng.asp](http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/ScienceAction/index_eng.asp)

Thanks for reading!",5,0,1670.3031658924426,GradSchool
"We built a free food finder for all graduate students. Find, share and post free food events on the Free Food Finder at your university. Please tell us how we can make it more effective for you or give us advice on how to make it better!",,0,3,1684.0622283924426,GradSchool
Is grad school easier than undergrad?,I am pursuing my Mba now part time (while I work full time). It just seems easier. I try more than I did in undergrad but it seems like everyone gets an A or B as long as you try. ,9,0,1749.012783947998,GradSchool
How it feels realizing I left the only computer charger I have at a hack meet when I have homework due this weekend and the office I left it at won't open until Monday.,,6,0,1837.8411404294795,GradSchool
How do I put my foot down?,"This will be brief but I wanted to see if anyone had advice or advisement on how to approach this....

My PI is pushing me to apply for a fellowship, even though my contract with the student union stipulates that it is up to the PI to find funding for all researchers. I have a lot going on outside of school, specifically with family, and on top of that am trying to get together all my data for part of my prospectus defense that will come in less than a year. How do I tell him no? Ive already re-confirmed that he can't technically make me do it, and I honestly have no interest in doing it right now because of the reasons stated. Just not sure how exactly to approach the issue....",8,3,1851.9412445961461,GradSchool
There's your problem. (NSFL: vacuum system gore),,3,3,2023.3556658924424,GradSchool
Post #2 My Background - My PhD Process: How I Survived a PhD in the Biological Sciences and Succeeded Afterward,,0,3,2043.372274688739,GradSchool
It was a good day...,,4,2,2387.06401079985,GradSchool
100 Reasons NOT to Go to Grad School,,5,0,2441.074994596146,GradSchool
1st paycheck - lower than promised/expected,"Hi all. I just got my first fellowship paycheck, but it doesn't show the amount what I expect and I don't know what I should do now: 

1. Why part of my fellowship got taxed? I thought fellowship is tax-free. 
2. Before I accepted the offer, the school promised that after I accept, I will get another one-time money as a reward in addition to my fellowship. After I accepted the offer, I didn't get that money right away, thinking it might come with my first paycheck. However, it didn't. Should I talk to the department about this? I mean I didn't accept the offer for that money, but that money isn't negligible. I don't want to sound demanding. 

Has anyone run into the same situation? Any suggestion would help. Thanks.",16,3,45.865179781331506,GradSchool
How is University of Miami?,Considering applying for Phd in Communication.,4,0,132.7385825591093,GradSchool
"I am a little girl that resigned from 3 jobs and keep coming back to school. (Motivational story, I guess?)","I'm was never the smartest, never the brightest student. Not even in high school, college or even now.   
But I know when I want to study, then I WANT TO STUDY and I HAVE TO STUDY. 

I'm a girl (youngest) and I have resigned from 3 jobs (2 jobs were from government institutions). I can't even recall how complicated each of them was. To start with, I come from a country where being a civil servant is dream job for 99.9 % people, everyone worships the job and even try to bribe to get the job. Here's list of my previous jobs :   

1. Export/Import Division  
Graduated from vocational degree in Uni, majoring in IT. I ended up working in subsidiary of the biggest garment company in Southeast Asia. Our native language isn't English, but in my work I had to use English on daily basis. I had to deal with General of Customs (the real deal), 2 out of 3 of my bosses were also Korean and they didn't speak native, so we could only communicate in English. I was doing REALLY AMAZING, but it was the kind of the company that whatever diploma you have, you'd be paid with the national minimum wage. Long story short, handed my resignation letter after 3 months. Boss said he'd consider raising my salary. NAH, I left , I knew it, I would rather code until I cry. So I went to continue my study to bachelor degree, taking IT major.

&#x200B;

2. IT Staff (Government Institution)    
Still in bachelor degree (early semester), out of curiosity because all my friends tried to applied for this particular job, I applied too for a job in a government institution. Made it out as the highest scored applicant, got the job immediately. The salary was massive, really massive. And my job basically I had to input whatever data from a paper form into the system (computer). **The hardest thing I had to do was setting up a printer and scanner**. It was a 9-5 job, I had to input data for 8 hours straight. I swear to God I applied for IT position, so I was expecting something else. But my job, even high school student could do it. Quit after 2 weeks, boss asked if the reason was the job wasn't challenging (HAHAAHA. EVEN HE KNEW. OMG. But I was such a polite girl so I gave another excuse). Also had a fight with one of best friend since she was applying for the job too, got rejected meanwhile I ended up resigning, if I didn't apply to begin with, she could've got the position. Drama. (Again, working in govt. institutional is dream job in this magical country). 

&#x200B;

3. IT Staff (Government Institution)    
Bachelor degree (last semester, just months away from thesis defense). Dad passed away, crying a lot, panicking, massive financial chaos since Dad was the only financial source, no one else in the family was working. I tried my best to get any job fast, so I could help my family. So I applied for a job, in a local govt. institution. Again, highest scored applicant, signed the pre-contract. **The hardest thing I had to do was using Microsoft Office**. Yes, but this is govt. institution and I was guaranteed a safe life, to have a job for the rest of my life, good salary, get pension money, get to wear the 'famous' civil servant uniform. DREAM JOB (!) My mom would iron my uniform literally every single day, she was so proud and told the whole neighbors that I was a civil servant. Again long story short... quit after 2 months. Reason ? said I was going to take Master degree, boss told me I could work and take master degree (special employee classes) at the same time, he permitted it, No, just NO. I would rather pull all-nighter every night debugging my code than having 8 hours sleep from working and getting a degree from courses I don't even attend. I quit. My mom was soooo devastated, she just couldn't justify and understand my desire to go to school. (I'm not coming from a family with academic background). We didn't even have any money and my only option was getting a scholarship, ASAP. I had a deal with my mom, if I wasn't getting scholarship for a period of time, I would go back working to help my family.  

&#x200B;

Those 3 jobs were the kind of job that when I woke up in the morning, I'd be like ""here we go again.."" with plain expression, no passion, not excited, no everything. I was like a living dead, I wasn't happy.  You've no idea how many neighbors, friends (even best friends), families even your own mom said how STUPID you were for wasting so many job opportunities, how many people actually fight for the job, day and night, even bribe for the job. ABOUT HOW UNGRATEFUL I WAS ?       

Deep down I knew my life couldn't possibly just stop there. Getting a safe job for the rest of my life work using Microsoft office. I'm not saying the job is necessary a bad job, I just feel like people have different calling in life, and that just isn't what my heart wants. I know what I want.   

On the other side, do you understand all the panic, the legit headache when you're in school ? Paper deadline, code debugging error to the point it haunted you in dreams (I did dream about it !! LOL), learning new programming language ? Research presentation ? The whole ""Which way should this experiment go after this, damn it I'm stuck at this step !"". This is the kind of headache that I miss !! I want this migraine ! This is the one that always keep me going, I wake up every morning longing for that feeling. That's why I keep coming back to school and I'm not even that smart. duh !

Happy ending ? Hopefully !! Now I'm taking my master degree abroad on a scholarship. (YAAY!!!!) Not only I still can support my family financially from my scholarship money, I also get to GET BACK TO SCHOOL !! ❤ Maybe (or not) I'm going to continue to PhD. PhD is world apart from master degree, 2 years hardwork alone isn't enough. It's a 4-5 years commitment, crying, lose your shit, crying again, debugging error, sleep deprivation and crying again. I don't know if I'm ready for that, I don't know if my family ready for that, I miss my cat, I don't have scholarship yet, no LoA yet and I'm getting old !! But, I really can't imagine my self outside academic field / school, no. Damn it, NO. What would I do then ?? Collecting more cats ? XD    


Dear whoever read this, this might sound cheesy and cliche but LISTEN TO YOUR HEART. Don't go around knowing what your heart wants and give it something else it doesn't desire. It will take some time to make big decision in life, take time as you need. But when you know you're really want a specific way in life, don't wait, go for it !!",1,0,151.6395547813315,GradSchool
"Got a horrible (multiple paragraph) student review, now I really don't want to write the LoRs I have to for other students","So, I got my reviews back for TA'ing this semester, and one of them is really, really bad. There are a few good ones, and one that's bad but short, but there was one review that was literally 5 paragraphs of trashing me. Kid called me lazy, disorganized, targeting with unfair grades, etc. I don't think I can post it here, but it was upsetting to say the least.

Anyway, a few students have asked me for letters for summer internships, and I've been good so far about getting them in. That said, I kind of feel crappy about doing it considering that bad review. I don't know who wrote it, and obviously, it might not be the same kid, but I just don't want to put in any more effort when I'm getting called lazy and mean, essentially.

The past semester was really rough for me, mental health-wise, and I feel like I put in so much effort to keep the class I TA'd for afloat in addition to all of my own work. I know it's unfair not to write the letters, any tips on getting out of this rut?",11,4,284.7534783924426,GradSchool
Ivy grad school - How did you do it?,"Currently an undergrad at Wesleyan University, really hoping to get into an Ivy or another top fifty for grad school. Are there any Ivy grad students here? What do you think made the difference in getting admitted? What did you do to beef up your resume? For context, I'm a double major in English and Philosophy.",27,0,287.22046913318337,GradSchool
Need motivation to study in 2019?,"Join N. America's largest study group. Where we study for 60 minute with a 15 minute break. Join students from all over the world, that will give you the environment and group accountability to stay focused, be productive and be successful in 2019.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j0oEsOfQjqU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j0oEsOfQjqU)",1,2,288.0575524665167,GradSchool
a reponse to the dropout story on front page,"Allow me to write something positive about grad school for once:

When I thought about doing my PhD I read all these forums and everything I saw was a miserable miserable experience. I seriously thought about quitting before I started. Let me tell you this, when people are enjoying grad school, learning, getting funding, making connections, they don't see a need to get on reddit and complain.

Grad school is and will always be completely dependant on your field and supervisor. So find a field with funding, and find a supervisor students like to work with. There is no golden rule of grad school, and one persons experience has literally no bearing on yours. I am a canadian engineering PhD in my third year, comps done, several pubs, taught my own course, and secured tons of funding. I guess I am smart, but not crazy smart. I don't work that hard, but I work smart and use my time effectively.

The people who have a bad time either:

\- picked a field with no funding, and therefore are now struggling. If you find an area with funding things can be great. I actually make just as much as my eng friends because my funding is untaxed.

\- picked a bad supervisor. Go and talk with people in the lab group. PM former students. If people had a bad time they will tell you. Ask the important questions: how many pubs did you get, did they micromanage, how many hours a week, was it innovative etc.

Please please please do not base a decision as big as grad school on the whining of people on forums who should probably close their reddit tab and get back to their thesis ;). You get out what you put in!",2,2,308.06670755910926,GradSchool
"Low BS and MS GPA, can't be admitted into PhD, can't get a job. What can I do?","I'm 29 years old. Got my MS degree last year, but still working on a paper with my advisor at the grad school.  During the undergrad, I had dropped out my first major in the 3rd year, then started another major. I have Computer Science BS and Operations Research MS degrees, specialized on discrete event simulation.

I got my BS and MS degrees with a mediocre 3.0 GPA. Because of my low GPA, it is almost impossible for me to be admitted into a reputable PhD program. I also cannot get a job because of my age and inexperience. I'm also too old to start a PhD.

What can I do? Do you have any advices?",18,3,315.2653996887389,GradSchool
Bought my first GRE prep book today!,Planning to apply for a masters in public administration and feeling good about my choice. Party on wayne,0,3,397.8713834850352,GradSchool
Is it really wrong to date a professor?,"Devil's advocate.... The way I see it, you can't tell someone who they should or shouldn't love or lust after. Also, you are playing the game. 

What are the reasons a student shouldn't date a professor? Anyone has stories? Does your university allow these types of relationships?

Im just curious to see how people truly feel about this. 

",10,2,413.97164968873886,GradSchool
"(Crazy Idea) I am a single white male, should I try for a diversity tuition waiver?",I am currently applying for graduate assistantships and the standard tuition waiver.  I thought I could also try for the diversity tuition waiver as a hail mary pass citing as an older student my age group would be underrepresented in a college graduate program.  Although I am a little hesitant to try this tactic. What do you guys think?,4,0,483.34408024429445,GradSchool
Why the use of A/S/L in r/gradschool?,"I'm headed to grad school next Fall and I'm a little older. I grew up with BBS and later AOL took over the internet. I grew up with weird communities on the internet asking for A/S/L (Age, Sex, Location) and I think it's a little odd that the only community I'm part of right now that still uses it is r/gradschool. Has anyone else noticed this in other communities on Reddit? What do you think pushes so many people here to post with that information?

Just skim through the r/gradschool posts and a weirdly large number include that in the subject or the first line of the text.",6,0,606.243223762813,GradSchool
Getting into a prestigious PhD program,"I'm an MA student in history at a small state school, and I would like to attend as prestigious a PhD program as possible. What does someone in my shoes have to do to make it into UVA or Princeton for example? Is it possible? I also heard that I should look for professors I want to study under, rather than focus on school prestige. What advice do you guys have on this?",6,3,801.0870895035538,GradSchool
Leave of absence starts today.,"Well today is my last day in my PdD program, I am about to start my leave of absence that is most likely going to result in my permanent leave. 

Now I just need to secure a job within the next few months... ",1,3,1028.2817885776278,GradSchool
‘Employment crisis’ for new Ph.D.s is an illusion,,23,8,1244.072888114665,GradSchool
I can music but I can't math,,1,8,1436.7389297813315,GradSchool
Help... my PhD advisor doesn't have social and life skills,"I read PhD advisors (supervisors, PIs) should help their students socialize at conferences and other professional events and teach them or at least serve as role models how to. Unfortunately, it turned out ALL my advisor does at evening social events is drink excessive amounts of alcohol until he gets very sick. He doesn't seem to be an alcoholic otherwise - he works so much that I don't see when he'd find time for regular drinking. He seems to have crippling social anxiety - at least according to my co-student, he said he was trying to gather courage to dance and talk with people; and also many other occurrences point towards that. Daytime social events he usually avoids or quickly escapes saying he has to work.

This is by far not the only of his social and life skills that are at the level of a young teenager or younger. He doesn't know how to manage his time, he doesn't know to drink enough water on hot days without someone reminding him, he forgets to eat... He is very successful at getting grants, publishing papers and giving talks, and usually very nice, but he seems like a little boy who needs a mother.

I don't know how to mother anyone, let alone an adult notably older than me and who is officially my superior. I am terrified my advisor will die from a preventable cause somewhere no-one will take enough care of him. I am afraid he is a horrible role model to us students. I am afraid for his little children who, it seems, are often alone with him. I am afraid he won't ever be able to help me enough to graduate and secure next position because he is struggling so much with life. My own research and social skills aren't really good and I don't know how to learn them, especially in these professional academic settings where everyone expects me to be mentored by my advisor - I don't have anyone more senior in my group whom I can turn to for that.

I am supposed to be around the middle of my PhD, supposed to have about 2 years left. I don't want to abandon my advisor or get him in trouble. But I think my advisor needs help, and I don't know how to help him or where to ask for help.

EDIT July 6th: He quit drinking alcohol, or at least in front of everyone in the group. And he shows some traces of working on his social and life skills - he organized a group social event, which went well, and on this occasion he seemed to relax and have fun without any alcohol. So I still have lots of hope for him.",33,9,500.233223762813,GradSchool
"Gradschoolonhardmode - I made a discord for grad students (prospective, current, and past) in need of an inclusive space","If you’re a first generation, low income, underrepresented minority, lgbtq+, and/or disabled/differently abled individual looking to connect with others about grad school, please consider joining!

Join using this link: https://discord.gg/7jsAHMS

Prior to starting this server, I’ve never used discord, so pardon me if the way I’ve set up the channels is wonky!

Hope it gets used! Looking forward to connecting with you guys ✨",0,19,160.6692885776278,GradSchool
"Not everyone on this sub has ""impostor syndrome""","I swear every other thread where someone is having doubts or struggling with some aspect of grad school, invariably there's at least one person who reminds us all that ""impostor syndrome is a VERY real thing"". Yes, it is. And it also happens to be the case that every year, legions of students enroll in advanced degree programs only to discover that they are inadequate, lack motivation, or otherwise have simply made a mistake.

All I'm suggesting is that perhaps we as a collective subreddit should reassess our tendency to trot out this tired cliché without a clearer picture of what is going on in a given poster's life.",15,16,805.9851450591093,GradSchool
Turning your MA thesis into a book,I submitted a book proposal that would stem from my master's thesis to an editor I met a few months ago in person. Fingers crossed!,6,11,286.27541126281295,GradSchool
I'm quitting grad school and leaving academia,I'm stuck in a clinicial psychology grad department that primarily focuses on social justice.  Just not interested in researching only racism or LGBTQ issues.  How do I break it to my family or friends this isn't for me? I'd rather become a welder than learn about microaggressions. ,7,8,848.9392307072574,GradSchool
Grad School Scam - YouTube,,2,9,2575.7761172813316,GradSchool
[humor] Insanity and text compression AKA writing a dissertation.,,5,11,2164.4015223739243,GradSchool
"Going from first year of grad school having no loans with one job - to having a 3k grant, 8k fellowship and a gov't loan with two jobs, this is how I feel right now:",,3,22,1520.2986057072574,GradSchool
Tips for Beating Depression in Graduate School,,2,20,2524.1945432072575,GradSchool
Is getting sexually assaulted by your PI/supervisor common in graduate school ?,"I've read [this article](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2016/oct/07/scale-of-sexual-abuse-in-uk-universities-likened-to-savile-and-catholic-scandals), so It seems that getting raped by senior alpha male academics is very common in grad school...

Has anyone here got sexually assaulted by his PI ? Could you share your stories? 
",11,0,1043.512911262813,GradSchool
Grades don't matter in grad school.. as long as they're good,"I found out I got a C- in one of my first year PhD courses. The department told me they're putting me on funding suspension for a semester for getting less than a B-. Before now it was never even mentioned to me that a certain grade level was needed to keep funding.. only variations of ""grades don't matter"" from professors. Not looking for advice or anything but just wanted to rant.",16,6,1386.176348762813,GradSchool
Is my [26/m] TA interested in me [21/f]? (Thought this was the best subreddit),"One of my TA's this semester is incredibly my type and I really want to ask him out once grades are finalized. We've spoken a lot during the semester about classes and other things and he's always been very nice and helpful, and I feel like it's been more than how a typical friendly TA would be. We get along well and have a good amount in common. He's offered me a lot of helpful advice, and told me to feel free to come and talk to him anytime...but this could easily just be him acting as a mentor. Some of our conversations also feel tense in the way conversations with people you're interested in (before dating) are. But all of this could also be me just reading into things. So once again, I want to ask him out, but I don't want to do it if I'm just reading into all of these ""signs."" Is there any surefire giveaway that he's interested?",15,0,1401.3557700591093,GradSchool
Don't want to do phd anymore because of hating the city and the weather,"I got into a phd program in a school that's considered a very good school for my major and it seems my department is a good and supporting one. I was really excited to be accepted and get involved in research. This will be my first year of phd, but I already don't want to do it. 

The school is located in a small town. I moved here a few days ago and I already hate it. I hate the weather  (I run away from hot and humid weather and ended up coming here without realizing it). I am an outdoorsy person, I love hiking and climbing, and this place is flat, no chance to go for hikes. I did get a bike, but the weather is so horrible, that I don't even want to get out. Before I lived in a very big city and the current town is so lifeless. 

It scares me that i'll be stuck here forever, even aftrr I finish my phd. I don't want to spend 5-6 years of my life in this town. 

Is it bad that I am already considering to just do masters and leave without giving chance to the department and myself? BTW my plan is to go into industry but I wanted to do phd because I really love my major but the city and the humidity and the lifelessness of the town is killing me.

",41,5,1537.9615455220721,GradSchool
"Positive Spin on a Negative Situation. If you're struggling with funding, please read.","Hey all. I have avoided this sub like the plague over my last 4 years of graduate school. When I was a Master's student, I always thought the PhDs were too whiny. In my second year, I was perplexed by how many PhDs tried to tell others not keep going. In my first year of my PhD, I was denied funding in my second year, and people in the sub told me to quit. After getting funded this year (my second) by a miracle, I find myself in the same situation. My department works me to the bone, underpays me, and then dumps me the next year for first-year students.

The silver lining is that I have an amazing major professor who believes in me. She is behind me to finish this degree in 3 years, and while I probably won't have a job in Academia after I'm done (Ed Admin and Policy), I'm going to have my degree (that was mostly free), and a step up in my climb to a university presidency.

Don't let your dreams die, everyone, but be realistic, AND ASK FOR HELP!",2,0,1632.1671589479981,GradSchool
Finals begin Monday and I am over here on Reddit.,,2,7,1775.840445985035,GradSchool
I just accepted a graduate program. Now I'm freaking out.,"I had three incredible offers, and I finally just picked one. Bam. It's done. Decisions are in. 

And now I'm doing the whole oh-god-oh-god-I-take-it-back freak out thing. What if I picked the wrong one? What if I hate it? What if the other schools now hate me? Aaah!

Calm me down please? Before I send out I'm-sorry-I'm-still-thinking-I-take-it-back emails?",14,3,2382.9926682072573,GradSchool
There are no academic jobs and getting a [literature] Ph.D. will make you into a horrible person,,9,4,2384.380770059109,GradSchool
"I'm an undergrad with a really REALLY bad transcript, how good (or bad) does grad school look for me?","Hey everyone, I'm in a bit of a rough spot. During my freshman year of college, I was sexually assaulted and as a result of me not having the best coping skills, I took a bunch of W's and a couple of straight-up F's in my sophomore year. I was able to get it together during my junior year but after the unexpected deaths of two loved ones, I took some more W's to lessen the burden of focusing on both school and my overall wellbeing. I have retaken all of the classes that I failed and was able to do grade replacements for them, and I received A's in all of the retakes. Currently I have like 12 W's, a major GPA of 3.75, and a cumulative GPA of 3.15. I expect the cumulative to end up at 3.3 by the end of this semester. I will be graduating in May 2020.

I don't plan to attend any fancy-shmancy institution, most likely UNM, which is where I'm already doing my undergrad. How screwed am I, and what are my options?

Edit: I am currently majoring in English and am thinking about either the English or Sociology grad programs.",8,3,14.029369596146323,GradSchool
Thinking about ditching science for art school.,"I started a MSc program in molecular genetics research at the University of Toronto a few weeks ago, which entails 3 5-week rotations. I'm currently halfway through my first rotation and although the research is interesting, I can't help but find myself not suitable for academia. I can't help but feel like other first years in my program are a lot more passionate about research than I could ever hope to be (they are asking insightful questions, have more experience having worked in labs over the summer, etc.)

The only reason I pursued this program was because I got rejected from Genetic Counseling and was sick of working customer service jobs (I had a hard time finding a job in science after my undergrad). I had a horrible time thinking of committing to PIs so I chose a program that offers lab rotations.

However, science and fine arts have always been my two passions, and now I'm thinking I should pursue a career in art. I've done my fair share of commissions and selling pieces online, but I'm thinking of dropping out of the MSc program and going to an art college program. I initially thought of going into a Medical Illustration / Biomedical Communications program; however, not only am I missing a couple pre reqs from undergrad, but U of T is the only school that offers it in Canada. I was thinking of maybe boosting my portfolio by attending a college program before applying to a Masters in Biomed Communications. 

Am I shooting myself in the foot if I drop out of U of T only to reapply a few years later?

Tldr; academia probably isn't for me, am I making a mistake to drop out and pursue fine arts?",16,1,18.897112651701878,GradSchool
Any success stories for getting into grad school with low gpa?,"Just curious to see if there is anyone out there with a success story for getting your desired grad program with a less than stellar gpa. 

My undergrad school is a top 100 program so the uni is competitive.

During undergrad years I worked two jobs and one of them is directly related to my masters field but my gpa suffered badly (2.62) 

So I have 7 years work experience with my field, did decent on the GRE (318) and have great letters of rec. 

Would love to hear from you beautiful people and hear your stories!",18,3,30.279172836887064,GradSchool
I think my adviser may be a Kevin,"I'm a semester into my master's program. I go to a tiny school that's just starting to get their grad program off the ground. My adviser was hired 2 years ago, this is his first job after getting his PhD. I'm really interested in his specific research area. I liked him at first, but after a semester, I've grown really frustrated with him. It's a complicated situation, but my primary concerns are that he's lazy and unmotivated to do much of anything. His lab is a mess. His classes are sloppily put together and he doesn't teach the material well at all. He's had several undergrads leave his lab because they don't like working with him. He's also quite a bit...spacey? Sometimes I think he's flat out incompetent. The choices he makes have me wondering where his head is at. It's got me thinking he may be a Kevin. Here are some instances to back it up:

Kevin will request I send various documents to him for revisions. Kevin will send the document back with more errors than it started with. 

Kevin gave me the instructions ""learn R"" (a statistics program). After telling him that I was struggling, he offered to write me some code to get me started. Practically every line of code he gave me returned an error. 

He was introducing a student during an awards ceremony for research. He ended up butchering this students' last name by pronouncing it as ""Del Toro"". He was WAY off base. He must have just watched Pan's Labyrinth. He worked with this student for months. 

We had a day where the whole department was to clean the building, to prepare for lab renovations. Kevin sat in his office all day and didn't lift a finger. When I asked him if he needed anything done to his lab, he said ""move the trough into the shed by maintenance."" The trough is over 300 pounds and too big to fit inside the shed. 

2 weeks before my thesis proposal, I asked him how many data chapters my thesis was going to be broken into. Kevin told me that it would be 1 chapter, and that I would have another data chapter. ""What should it be on?"" I asked. ""Do a literature review."" He replied. ""So you want me to develop an entirely new project?"" ...he shrugged, and said... ""Yeah pretty much.""

Kevin doesn't prepare much for his classes. At the beginning they go fine, but a few weeks in, they begin to fall apart. About halfway into the semester, we started bugging him about our first exam, as we had no points recorded yet. Kevin informed us he would assign a take-home exam that day. ""What are the questions?"" We asked. Kevin proceeded to write 2, yes TWO questions for us to answer, off the top of his head. The questions were just different wordings of the same question. 

More on his classes: Kevin is late all the time. His students started locking him out of the classroom because he was always the last one to show up; sometimes he wouldn't show up at all. 

Kevin is notorious for flaking out, and cancelling appointments. Last semester, Kevin had us prepare for a small conference being held at our school. We spent a couple weeks making posters and providing peer revisions. We show up to the event at 8am on a Saturday. When they were introducing faculty, they called his name, and he wasn't there. The Chair had to call him and yell at him for him to show up. 

Kevin was spotted on his lawn barefoot caressing shrubs.

I've learned that I won't be able to rely much on Kevin for the rest of my program. Luckily there are other great faculty in my department, all of whom are aware of how Kevin is. The department kind of hates him. Myself and my labmate have spoken with the Chair about our complaints with him and we've been told they will be sitting down with him soon. I don't think he will be fired, but it will be interesting if this may change his behavior. It's frustrating because his research area is extremely valuable, and I believe he's capable of the job. However if he keeps doing things the way he's doing them I'm afraid he won't be sticking around.",4,2,50.910989966516695,GradSchool
Graduate School One Poem At A Time,"Graduate School Poem - August 20th, 2019

&#x200B;

Missing Pieces

&#x200B;

Have you seen

my missing pieces?

I don't know when they left.

&#x200B;

I felt the lump in my throat

solidify like concrete

when I wanted to cry.

I swallowed that piece...

I swallowed it down.

I thought I did at least.

&#x200B;

The pieces left me,

tear by tear.

I try to replace them,

drop by drop,

day by day,

drink

by

drink.

&#x200B;

Have you seen

my missing pieces?

They've left me

feeling adrift

afloat

alone.",8,4,55.859496910961134,GradSchool
Why are faculty positions so sought after?,"I don't get it. I see and hear of so many postdocs chasing elusive faculty jobs, but why? All of the professors in my department (physics) work every weekend, and their time during the week is filled with meetings and being more a manager than scientist. Constantly travelling from country to country leaving family behind. All that work to simply publish papers that largely do nothing.

Is it an ego thing? To be a 'big name'? Or would these professors change jobs if they could?

Disclaimer: I am moving to industry post-PhD so I am biased.",11,2,70.46110570725743,GradSchool
"Are well-endowed universities unethical for not offering more financial aid, when their students prostitute to pay tuition?","I was dazed by this [HuffPost article dated 9/9/2016](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/nyu-tuition-prostitution_b_8112424)

>“Mandy,” an anonymous NYU junior, took the stage (face hidden by a mask from Eyes Wide Shut) to tell exactly how, and why, she had no choice but to become a prostitute to meet NYU’s soaring price.

and [The Village Voice article dated 5/17/2016](https://www.villagevoice.com/2016/05/17/work-study-manhattan-style-thousands-of-ny-students-turn-to-sex-work-to-make-ends-meet/) that introduces two more NYU students who prostitute for tuition, pseudonymized  Johanna and Max. 


>And although NYU’s $3.2 billion endowment is substantially smaller than Columbia’s $8.2 billion, [ProPublica’s Debt by Degrees](https://projects.propublica.org/colleges/) database [the author didn't link it] lists dozens of colleges with smaller endowments than NYU, including Syracuse University and Fordham, that charge their low-income students a fraction of what NYU does.


1. I won't define ""well-endowed"", but we can start with [Wikipedia's lists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lists_of_institutions_of_higher_education_by_endowment_size) of [Canadian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Canadian_universities_by_endowment), [UK](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_UK_universities_by_endowment), and [US universities endowed > $1B](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_colleges_and_universities_in_the_United_States_by_endowment#Endowments_currently_greater_than_$1_billion). 

2. Domestic undergraduate tuitions in Canada and the UK are far less than those in the US, but not necessarily so for postgraduates or international undergraduates. 

2. I'm assuming that such universities can pay these impecunious students' tuitions from their >$1B endowments.",3,0,92.66408024429447,GradSchool
What's Grad School like? Specifically for history students.,"Could you write a little about your experiences? Like how is it with your life with regard to work and school? Are you writing most of the time or having lectures? How long did it take you to complete your degree? Do you work as a TA or tutor?  What can your Master's degree get you for work in the History field (if you don't wanna teach or work in a museum)?

&#x200B;

I wanna get an idea of what it's like.",8,0,101.06580478133151,GradSchool
Funded Visit...for spouse?,"Hi everyone, my husband was recently accepted into a doctoral program across the country from where we live. The university has offered him a small reimbursement to help defray travel costs, but it won’t even cover half of what it would cost for both of us to make the trip. They also offered to put him up with a grad student though with both of us visiting, we will probably get a hotel for one night (total trip cost a little over $1k). I think it is important for me to also visit to see if it makes sense to uproot my life and career to move 3k miles away with him...is it totally inappropriate for him to ask whether there might be an additional budget for them to help cover my travel costs as well? In my mind, he’s already been accepted and the worst they can say is “no” but obviously they don’t necessarily have any reason to offer funds for a spouse to visit as well. Anyone have experience or advice with this?

Edit: I’ve been informed this is a terrible idea so will not ask for any additional help with travel costs. Thanks for the insight - totally new to this.",8,2,238.14424228133151,GradSchool
Applying to Grad School w/ SO,"I’ll make this short and simple. My gf and I are both finishing up undergrad within the next year and we are looking to go to grad school (MS) together. She is in marine engineering and I’m still deciding between water resources or civil engineering. I guess the question is, when applying, should we mention in our applications that we are applying as a couple? Does it make it harder or easier in looking for mentors or even assistantships when applying as a couple? Has anyone done this before (successfully or not)? Or just any general thoughts or advice anyone wants to share. Thanks in advance! ",10,1,265.90818904059074,GradSchool
How to build a competitive Grad school application with a low GPA (3.0),"I’m coming to the end of my undergraduate career and recent events have caused me to think about grad school. I believe it is a little late to start but have been trying to look for research/internship opportunities in my field (Mechanical Engineering/Physics dual degree).   I do have some gen ed’s to take so I can boost my CGPA a little but not too much. Also considering retaking a class or 2 to boost major GPA. I’m looking for something that will make it stand out at a high tier university. Any and all help welcome, Thank you!",8,1,395.1218811702204,GradSchool
Internship/Entry-Level Job Opportunities,"Hey, I thought I would share this program I know (Vocate) that helps undergrads/grad school students get an internship or entry-level job. It's pretty useful as I got my first internship with it. It also has a resume review feature that I used pretty often. I just thought it could be something someone here could benefit from. 

Link:https://www.vocate.me/?tap_a=23174-abc9b9&tap_s=283917-6ab2ce",0,1,439.17230941096113,GradSchool
The Impostor syndrome turned apathy,"I have no idea why I'm here. I have no idea why anyone let me in the first place. I have no idea why I haven't been kicked out yet.

New 4th year PhD here. Aced my comps this past winter. I have a manuscript, a review, and a grant all about ready to send out. Aim 1 is almost done, Aim 2 is half done. Boss thinks I can get out May 2020 (End of 5th year).

I plan to teach medical school when I get out. They've started letting me teach random classes in random schools (Pre-matriculation, grad school, undergrad). When its kosher for a student to teach. I'm TAing for med school Histology this year and Neuroanatomy next year.

I'm totally unconcerned about getting a job. I'm totally not worried about my stuff getting published, or finishing experiments, or even showing up to work on time. My boss really doesn't care either. Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. He's always excited when I do and ignores it when I don't. 

I feel like I've had so many exams, challenges, and talks, that they are just running out of things to make me nervous about anymore. Its going from serious impostor syndrome to pure Apathy. 

The APATHY is insane. ",2,2,441.1067770035537,GradSchool
Open PhD position in computational bio,"Hello all,
Our lab is looking for computer science/ network science or related fields students for a PhD position. You would be working with biological networks and/or computational protein engineering.

Please drop me a message if:
1. You are proficient in Python and C++
2. You are interested.


P.S. You need not have a masters, but its preferred.",3,0,484.6525293183685,GradSchool
Why do many academics come up with theories that can't be used in the real world,"I'm sorry for being rude, but I need to rant and get some answers. I really don't understand why we are reading so many theories that can't be applied in the real world. I know this differs for each field, but why do theories have to contain complex language and what is the point of everything if there is a disconnect between theories and practices. There's always research and research, but I know many people who work in the field don't care for reading them. Maybe this is just something I'm experiencing? I don't feel I have learned anything practical in grad school. All of the class discussions are just repetition of what has been said in research. Maybe I'm not ready yet? ",8,0,508.2076566331834,GradSchool
How do I stay motivated?,"Before asking yourself how to stay motivated you should choose a goal. For what you're going to stay motivated. I prefer use S.M.A.R.T. technique writing my goals on the paper. As you know your goal should be:

- Specific

- Measurable

- Achievable

- Realistic

- Time-bound

After defining your goal next step is dividing it into sub-tasks. Imagine your goal is reading the book. Book's chapters are sub-tasks. Remember about benefits you will enjoy getting done your job. Get focused on things that matter.",1,0,542.4687677442945,GradSchool
Liberal Arts – An outdated degree?,,8,0,544.3080501517019,GradSchool
From professor-in-waiting to florist: Why some PhDs are quitting academia for unconventional jobs,,3,2,551.2393927442945,GradSchool
(Vent) Really annoyed by a really stupid thing.,"One month ago, I got an email from a professor out of the blue congratulating me on being recognized for ""teaching excellence"". I emailed her back thanking her but confessing I didn't know what she was talking about. She replied that she had jumped the gun and that, re-reading her email, she realized it said I was _going to_ get letters about it soon.

That was over a month ago. I've turned in several mediocre job applications for teaching positions since then without much to set me apart as an outstanding instructor without hearing back. I could REALLY use some evidence for teaching effectiveness in my teaching portfolio.

Yesterday I tracked down the professor and told her I had never gotten anything. She said to ask a coordinator in our front office about it. Turns out she is away this week, and next week is spring break. I pressed the issue a little with other people in the office and they texted her. Her advice? ""Keep watching your mailbox. It's probably still coming.""

In a couple more weeks, it won't really be of any use to me. I almost wish I'd never heard anything about it.",0,2,588.0666265405907,GradSchool
xkcd 1954: Impostor Syndrome,,1,2,606.1448788554056,GradSchool
"Hey, MPA grad's of UC Denver, U of North Dakota, U of I Springfield or Arkansas State, what are you up to? Are you happy with what you got out of your MPA and your choice?","Looking for feedback from MPA grads from the following schools, which are all affordable, NASPAA accredited. 
Especially people that were not coming for the public service field to see if they are happy with their choice and whether they liked the program and had trouble getting jobs they wanted, or if not getting a degree from (insert name) prestigious school mattered to their success in the end.
Also wondering if getting a degree from your own state is better in term of getting job post graduation.

- University of Colorado Denver
- Arkansas State 
- University of North Dakota
- University of Illinois Springfield.

Any feedback welcome!",1,2,640.1267885776277,GradSchool
Ive got an interview at Duke for their CMB PhD program,"Hey guys. 

So I was offered an interview for the CMB (Cellular and Molecular Biology) PhD program at Duke and was hoping that you all would be willing to give me some tips or advice to do well in the interview and what I can plan to expect or how best to prepare for it. 

Thanks, in advance. ",2,0,656.4850871887389,GradSchool
11 PhD and 5 postdoc positions available on Data Science,,0,0,705.4518348739241,GradSchool
"If you didn't have to worry about making money, what would you do with your life?",,6,2,728.0567770035537,GradSchool
"About to apply to PHD programs, getting butterflies and want an honest opinion form the outside.","I'm new to Reddit (6mos approx) so forgive me if this is not the place to post his. 

Anyway, I've done Integrated BS-MS 5 year program from a reputed college of my country. My major and theses was on theoretical chemistry but I switched to it from the 3rd year. Before that I was in the Polymer Designs lab and was hating it, hence the change. My grades are above average at best (9.1 cgpa) and have done two summer projects and a 1 year research project under my guide. 

I took the GRE and got, Verbal 154 (64th percentile), Quantitative 162(82nd percentile) and Writing 4.0(59th Percentile). In the TOEFL iBT I got a 213 out of 220, with a 23 in Speaking section. I also gave subject GRE in chemistry and got 89th Percentile (I forgot the exact score). 

I am passionate about my field and want to advance my career in it, but now that I'm about to apply for PhD programs, I'm racked with doubts and insecurity about my abilities, SOP and CV and have been postponing applying. 

I have talked to everyone I know about these things, and they say it will pass and its natural, but I want an outside opinion from someone who maybe has gone through something I'm going through. I'd really like to know whether this is normal and how to deal with this. 

Also, if possible could anyone take the time to review my SOP and critique it? I'm willing to send it over via PM. ",13,2,730.5042422813315,GradSchool
Should I Retake the GRE?,"I'm applying for Masters in Public Policy programs at George Washington, UT Austin, and University of Washington.
I took the GRE back in August and got a 164 Verbal (94th percentile), 153 Quantitative (51st percentile), and 4 in Analytical Writing (60th percentile). 

I'm happy with the Verbal score, but the average Quant score for these programs is the 52nd percentile the average Writing scores are around the 72nd percentile.I did not put a ton of prep time, and barely prepped for analytical writing because I was overconfident and thought I would do better. I especially felt like I blew the writing, and feel fairly confident that I could get a 5 with some serious preparation.

My big concern is that my letters of recommendation will be on the weak side because I am an introvert who didn't take enough initiative to get out of my comfort zone and really get to know professors during undergrad. Since these will probably not be stellar, I am thinking that better GRE scores will help compensate (though obviously not make up) for that.

I graduated cum laude from a large state school with honors and a 3.675 GPA, which is slightly above average for these programs.

Applications are due in December/January, so I'd definitely be cutting it close and would have less than a month to prep (again).
What do you guys think? Thanks!",6,0,731.277436725776,GradSchool
A good resource for understanding the world you're in as a grad student,http://www.chronicle.com,0,4,732.945237651702,GradSchool
What do you wish you knew?,"I'm writing an article for my website, which is focused on providing advice and resources for grad students. I want the article to be centered around advice from existing grad students that would help new grad students.

If you want to participate, then answer this question -

""What do you wish you had known before you started grad school? What opportunities did you miss because you didn't know it?""

Thanks.

",21,1,843.3842191331834,GradSchool
"As a student starting his B.Tech degree in computer science this year, what should I do to get into a reputed PhD program in the US after 4 years?","I am from India.I have published a peer reviewed paper(albeit in psychology),was the president of the computer club at the school circuit, won several IT quizes, proficient in Java,C and have a rudimentary knowledge of bash,python and VB.NET. Notable extracurriculars -  I am a FIDE rated chess player and have won a national inter school video editing competition. ",2,0,888.7020084850353,GradSchool
Sharing a hotel room with your PI,"There is an upcoming conference which I am considering attending, where me and my PI would be the only ones attending from our institution. 

At conferences, same gender students always share hotel rooms, and the professors stay in their own rooms.

At this conference, since it will only be us two, my same-gender Prof wants us to share the hotel room to save on costs. This feels inappropriate, but I'm not sure if it actually is. Further complicating things, at least in my mind, is that I am openly gay, and if I raise objections it will be perceived in a different way than if I objected if I were heterosexual. My professor is married with children. 

I guess I mostly want clarity on two questions: Am I right to feel uncomfortable about this arrangement, and if so, what would be a constructive way to express my discomfort? 

edit: unfortunately, /u/BujoThrawn chose to make this all about sexual orientation for some reason.  Thanks to the other folks who decided to be helpful instead.",23,3,897.3215686702204,GradSchool
"When you do a PhD, you're speeding along on a motorcycle, figuring out how to actually drive it as you go","I've been thinking of the process of learning how to research as beginning to ride a motorcycle before you even know how. I wrote about it here, and would love to hear if it jibes with others' experiences or if you have other helpful analogies for thinking about the process: https://rosehendricks.com/2017/02/23/riding-the-grad-school-motorcycle/",4,2,964.2780385776277,GradSchool
Hilarious video..TA at my school,,2,0,969.0888603368871,GradSchool
Academic hazing,,0,2,971.9231311702204,GradSchool
Thinking of quitting a gradschool,"I'm just coming to a dead end here. This is my second semester of my MBA program, yet I'm already demotivated to finish my degree. There are many reasons to that. One of which is the quality of that school. I'm in the 30th generation of that program (2 intakes annually) It seems like I was doing good, but suddenly, there was no 31st batch of students coming to study the program I'm studying. That really reflects the current quality of that school. I'm just thinking of finding job here, but in my country, there is still the conscription law that requires any 21 years old men to go through that process. You can get exempt from that by attending 3 year army cadets program. (but actually a money sucker off any students who attend) I'm now on my last postpone, so in April, I might have to be a soldier (by chance) From militaristic burden I have, many employers in my country still consider me unusable. (There's a risk of going to conscription) I'm just asking if there is any suggestion on what I should do.",2,0,1002.7539413554056,GradSchool
Plan for Berkeley Political Science PhD.,"I recently decided I want to be accepted to the political science grad program at UC Berkeley. Its close to home and is a great program. However, I already know my GPA is too low to be accepted to the program at this point. It hurts to come to terms with but I never tried in college because I didn't think I needed good grades since I wasn't planning on going to grad school. Now, I am set to graduate in Fall 2017 and would have to apply by Dec. 1st of 2017 to be accepted for Fall 2018. That means I only have this next semester to boost my GPA and even if I got all As, my GPA would still fall between 3.1-3.3.

My question is, if I attend a masters program at my current college, would I be able to get my PhD at Berkeley? Berkeley's program is one that encompasses the masters and phd together so that you can only be accepted for entire study to attain your phd if that makes sense. Since thats the case, does that mean they only take students who only have their bachelors or will they also take students with masters as well?
Secondly, should I stay in college for an extra semester and graduate in Spring 2018 instead of Fall 2017 in order to boost my GPA? The problem I see with this though is that my spring 2018 grades wouldn't be looked at in my application so there wouldn't really be a point then correct? Or am I missing something here. 

I would love your help in this quite stressful time. Thank you all in advance :)",15,3,1011.0449714479983,GradSchool
Has anyone ever got a bad grade on a quiz?,"It was worth 10% of our grade and I scored 65%. She postponed the quiz by two weeks and I am not going to lie I barely studied.

I have been depressed and exhausted. My mind has been not working for me lately. 
I am typically an all A lady. I got upset when I scored 90% in my last quiz. 

I feel like I am over grad school. I just want to be done. Does anyone ever feel like this? Any advice? ",6,0,1057.0683395035537,GradSchool
Need urgent help about a hair drug test Monday - Psych Doc Internship at stake,"I need help with deciding what to do about a drug test coming up Monday that I found out is a hair analysis test. I smoked weed with my husband who I now filed for divorce from until the day I found out about the testing. This was in mid-July. The site is required to inform students in writing if there will be a drug test before the match happens, which is supposed to be binding, but there wasn't anything about drug testing in their materials nor did they send me a letter in the mail like they were required to with my acceptance and details (they sent me a congratulations email with the date I will start and how much they will pay me). I contacted the internship match clearinghouse and asked them about this and they said that, unfortunately, even if they didn't notify me, either party can request be released at any time and for any reason (leaving me to wonder binding really means then). I was also told I'm not protected by employment rights because I am not really an employee until I am hired and I will only be hired if I pass all the pre-employment requirements. I'm passing home marijuana drug tests at home after I drink about three glasses of water but that won't help with a hair test. I also think if I cut my hair and Nair everywhere they could take nails and I can't rip those out. I could offer a blood test and it would be clean but they might refuse that. Any recommendations for me? I'm not making any excuses, but I can say with a good amount of certainty that I will not use weed again. Please email me for more details. I am thinking of calling HR tomorrow and could really use some recommendations about what to say and not say.",10,0,1159.8173904294797,GradSchool
Unfair Class Grade?,"I took Intermediate Accounting II this past semester. The course was very difficult for everyone but I believe we all made sufficient progress. 

The professor has been bad about answering e-mails. He is a ""do it as quick as possible"" type of person and would answer the first line of an e-mail and not bother with anything else. I'm afraid he took this approach when giving out grades.

At the beginning of the semester, and after each test, he proposed a grading scale to help us determine where we stood in the class (this was a good reason some of us chose to stay). However, the week before the final he said that he now wasn't going to hold grad students to that scale and that he would raise it a bit, but did not specify any numbers. 

I came to find I received a C- in the course, which was much lower than I had expected. I asked for him to post the grades for the final and the graduate project and he said he would this week, yet no grades have been posted. In another class, I talked with other students who had taken the course with me and they told me they had all received C-'s as well, and that he probably wasn't going to post the grades at all.

Should I take this issue up with the dean or what should be my plan of action? I feel I deserve better than this and it could effect my ability to receive financial aid. Thanks for the help.",5,0,1249.925133485035,GradSchool
"TA ing through my CS PhD, worth it or switch schools?","I am currently a second year graduate student. I have been TA-ing my last four semester. It looks like I will have to TA my entire way, since my advisor has no funds. Is it advisable to switch schools next year after getting a masters, or stick it out? TA-ing is absolute slavery without any value to my career. At best, it interferes with my research time",7,0,1329.3128418183685,GradSchool
Problem with a program director,"Ok so throwaway because I don't want this to possibly get back to me and its really long, sorry about that.  Anyway I'm a 1st Ph.D. student in genetics in my 2nd semester and 3rd laboratory rotation.  I worked at the same university for a year as a lab tech before starting the program, so I kinda knew people and how things worked going in.  Our program is really small (only 7 of us 1st years) so its really integrative.  Anyway we have 2 program directors and we have seminar every week with our program.  I've had multiple instances happen to believe that one of our program directors does not like me.  Very negative, unnecessary comments after rotation presentations and just random comments once and a while that were very passive aggressive.  My only guess on why she doesn't like me is because I worked in a pretty prominent professor's lab for the year before I started grad school.  So I'm guessing she didn't have much of a say of whether or not I got into the program, although that's just a guess.

Fast forward to last week when interviews were taking place for next year's incoming class.  So I signed up for going to dinner with the incoming students on a Friday.  I didn't know till Tuesday that they wanted us to go out to dinner (only grad students with interviewees, no faculty) with the out-of-town students Thursday night as well.  So Wednesday and Thursday night I had exams from 6-8pm.  My Thursday night exam went to 8:30pm and I didn't even finish it!!  So that class in notoriously hard in our program, and we are warned about this from the very beginning.  Since many grad students weren't going to dinner that Thursday night after my exam I thought I should still go, and it was a free meal.  The other grad students asked how my exam was and what class it was for and I told them.  We talked for about 5 minutes about how hard that class was and how everyone fails the exams (the class average is a B in that class no matter what).  I just told the students my experience so far, which including some disappointing news about a lab I was supposed to join.  So I just told them be careful about funding in your rotations and make sure the PIs are upfront about it. Nothing unusual I thought occurred.

The next morning we had our program seminar and everything was fine, I mentioned to the other program director (the one who doesn't hate me) that I had just finished an exam and was tired and probably not a glowing representation of grad school being awesome and fun.  He said ""Well that's grad school, so they need to get ready for it.""  With in 30 min of seminar being over I received an email from the other program director (the one that hates me) that said she received feedback from some students about the dinner last night and it seems there was a lot of negative talk about the program. She continues to say this is unprofessional and inappropriate for a recruiting visit and really undermines our efforts to attract the best students. Then ends it with ""At this point, I think it is best if you do not go to dinner tonight with the prospective students.""  I was shocked and could not believe what I received from her.  Did the prospective students say something? Or could it have been a fellow grad student?  

After some talking to people in the program and what happened at following dinners/taking the students out on the town, I believe she over heard the prospective students talk about ""a student just finishing an exam, being tired, and little distressed when she arrived at dinner.""  WTF seriously, at first I though one of the grad students at dinner told the director that I was making the program look bad. I'm talking to the other program director tomorrow, but I would like some advice on how to approach this.  If this is true, she is obviously singling me out and doing anything she can to try to kick me out of the program.  I love what I do so I obviously don't want to get kicked out. Anything is appreciated!!!  


 

",13,3,1335.0415107998501,GradSchool
Would you pay for an online course that helped college students manage depression and anxiety?,"Would you pay for an online course that helped college students manage depression and anxiety?

----
I have been doing research around graduate and PhD students suffering from depression and anxiety. So far, I have been blown away by the following information: the amount of work required by graduate and PhD level courses, how isolating the experience can be, and how little time and attention students give to their personal well-being. There are MOOC's (Massive Open Online Courses) for professional development, and certain academic areas of interest. While these are incredibly useful, personal development is the foundation that allows a person to excel in all areas of life.

I am simply curious if those graduate and/or PhD students struggling with depression and/or anxiety would be willing to put a small amount of time in to an online course that offered lifetime access, a supportive community, and required small amounts of daily work (as little as 5 minutes a day) to drastically improve their ability to manage stress, depression, and anxiety for life. The course would come with an option for a full refund, which would be valid for 12 months after purchase. There would also be payment plans (upfront, monthly until total cost met, etc.).

I truly appreciate the responses and feedback. If anyone would like to PM me to discuss graduate school, depression, anxiety, stress, etc. I would love to here personal stories and experiences! Thank you!

----
|Vote Button| Poll Options|Current Vote Count|
|:-----------:|:------------:|:------------|
|**[Vote](http://redditpoll.com/vote/gNVpUXoZ)**|Yes, I would pay 0-$100!|**1198** Votes 
|**[Vote](http://redditpoll.com/vote/0MA8HkJx)**|Yes, I would pay $101-$400!|**558** Votes 
|**[Vote](http://redditpoll.com/vote/Gq2xfw20)**|Yes, I would pay $401-$800!|**551** Votes 
|**[Vote](http://redditpoll.com/vote/dlLbUNxz)**|Yes, I would pay $801-$1000!|**557** Votes 
|**[Vote](http://redditpoll.com/vote/6kMJcyLg)**|Yes, I would pay over $1000!|**562** Votes 
|**[Vote](http://redditpoll.com/vote/kQxVHKgz)**|No, I do not think such a class is worth money.|**121** Votes 
|**[Vote](http://redditpoll.com/vote/NzDlTXAb)**|No, even if the work was effective and given in small doses, I do not have time.|**96** Votes 
|**[Vote](http://redditpoll.com/vote/73WmumO8)**|No, even if the work was effective and given in small doses, I do not have the energy.|**102** Votes 
----
**Instructions:**

* Click Vote to Register Your Vote.

----
**Note:** Vote Count in this post will be updated real time with new data.

----
Make Your Own Poll Here **[redditpoll.com](http://redditpoll.com)**.

----
See live vote count **[here](http://redditpoll.com/poll/would-you-pay-for-an-online-course-that-helped-college-students-manage-depression-and-a)**",6,0,1343.119786262813,GradSchool
On-Campus Housing,"I am in the process of researching schools for the Fall Semester, and I am currently married. I am looking for any information or personal experiences with securing housing (other than the traditional way). I came across a couple of schools that offer either on campus apartments for families (which is usually very limited) or have good connections to nearby complexes. However, most of the information I came across pertains to single-mothers, and wish to not impede on that group. 

*Extra info* I am looking for schools that fall within $21,084.89 per semester
",11,0,1406.5546936702206,GradSchool
"My physicist husband is concerned his low grades will keep him from grad school, what steps can he take?","Long post forthcoming.

tl:dr physicist husband dealing with low grade anxiety, what do?

Hello all, this is my first post to r/GradSchool and I've had a rough day so bear with me. 

My husband and I are both students at a technical university. We are both planning to apply to graduate school, but he has been struggling with self doubt that has slowly become more and more concerning. 

My husband worked for 5 years as an IT consultant but is now a physics major. He started studying in 2009 at a junior college, struggling until 2014 when he was finally diagnosed with a learning disorder. He has extremely slow visual processing speed and ADHD which can completely derail him at times.  That being said, he is absolutely brilliant and has completed successful research after transferring to a four-year university, however his grads are subpar (2.78 overall, 2.41 in major coursework). He struggles to focus in class despite his meds and finds it hard to keep up with homework. He has often verbalized that he wishes he could take just one class at a time so that he can give it 100%, but that is simply impossible because of our financial aid requirements. I should also mention, we're adult students (26f and 30m) so we have at home problems like bills and work to juggle.

He has been feeling completely and utterly defeated and thinks there is no hope of him getting into grad school. His own adviser suggested going directly into industry, but he really enjoys research and wants to contribute to the community.

My question is what steps can he take to get into a graduate program despite his grades and learning disability? Any advice is helpful.",8,0,1446.0260941331835,GradSchool
Grad school is not fun,"This is my first semester of grad school.  I've been out of undergrad for 3 years.  I work full time.  I closed on a house the first week of school this semester (horribly timing).  I've had some minor health problems for the first time in my life during this semester (classic father time).  I've gotten little sleep.  My wife has done about 500% more home renovation work than I have, not to mention the normal daily chores.  I'm not having fun, and this is a rant to reflect that.

Good day :)",4,2,1457.8252376517019,GradSchool
Are GRE prep courses worth the money?,"I am applying for the Environmental Humanities program at the University of Utah, where I received my bachelors degree in English. I feel pretty confident about any written, grammar, or analytical sections of the GRE. Math, however, is not my best subject. The University has math refresher courses, but only if you're registered for the prep courses, which is close to $600. Not sure if I feel like spending that money, but I could really use the math help. 

Any advice?",29,2,1462.2252029294798,GradSchool
Online Doctorate Degrees - thoughts?,"I know if I wanted to teach an online doctorate degree wouldn't suffice. I'm inky wanted to further myself in my career.

Arizona State and UNC both are prestigious schools, nationally known and accredited, and offer online doctorate degrees.

What are your thoughts on these type of degrees from big name schools?",23,0,1505.2552029294795,GradSchool
Upcoming comprehensive exam.,"I am taking my comps on Wednesday, July 15th and would like some pointers.

The exam covers the six core classes of my program.  There are four questions to choose from in the morning and four more in the afternoon.  Therefore, there are eight questions over six total classes.  I know there is one class from which I do not want to answer a question (Workers Compensation).

That said, and having a study guide in hand, how have you guys studied for and passed open response comprehensive exams?  I normally don't study - I take the time to actually learn the material and never found it necessary.  I plan on putting aside eight full hours of study time for this and would like some pointers on how to do so effectively.  Thanks in advance.",8,0,1554.7361057072574,GradSchool
Is College of Staten Island worth it?,"I have been suggested this college by a friend and have submitted by scores here. But on seeing that this university has a acceptance rate of 100%, makes me a little skeptical. So if anybody could shed some light on this University, that'd be great?

Edit:
I'm interested in doing a master's from computer science. If that helps in narrowing down suggestions.. ",4,2,1588.4084899665168,GradSchool
ADVICE NEEDED: What features of Endnote do you wish you had known before you started your thesis?!,Any tricks/shortcuts/features that you wish you had known about?,7,1,1607.9437214479983,GradSchool
15 Highest Paying Ph.D Degrees,,5,0,1634.8364066331835,GradSchool
GRE Prep help,Is it better to take the GRE prep class or study on your own?,7,0,1725.7076797813315,GradSchool
PSA: Don't forget to remove track changes from documents before sending them to people.,"Just got a (word doc) draft back from advisor. There were red track changes all over it! Panic set in... until I realized that all the red track changes were mine. Oops, here's hoping she doesn't think I'm too much of an idiot for forgetting to accept my own changes prior to sending her my work. ",0,2,1729.6945779294797,GradSchool
Grad School Applications and Resume,"I am currently a freshman double major in Applied Mathematics+Engineering Physics with a minor in Electrical Engineering. It sounds like a lot but all my life I have burned with the desire to understand high-level mathematics and apply that knowledge to the discipline of engineering. Now that I am in college and 'free' to immerse myself I have found that I am in love with school and want to pursue this passion to the farthest reaches that it can take me to. Over the next 4 years I am looking to position myself so when I graduate I will be able to get into a Ph.D program for Materials Science and Nanoengineering at either Rice, Stanford, or MiT (top 3 programs that I have encountered). Some advice I have already received has been:

*3.8+ GPA

*Research every summer/during school year (REU's, professors, etc)

*Strike up a relationship with several professors because sterling recommendations from a respected academic will carry heavy weight.


Is there any other advice that /r/GradSchool has for me? Since I am a freshman, and hence very unlikely to be accepted at any REU's this summer, what should I be doing instead? To be honest I write this post out of fear more than anything. When I applied to colleges I had what I considered was a fairly competitive application:

*National Merit Finalist

*3.0+ GPA

*1500+ Math/Reading SAT Score

*Varsity Basketball for three years

but the only school I got into was my last choice. I do not want a repeat of this 4 years from now so any advice or helpful words about my resume or how I should approach my applications would be greatly appreciated. Thank you!",5,2,1731.59369829985,GradSchool
I'm green around the gills when it comes to education beyond a Bachelor's degree. Help!,"I have a bunch of general questions about the Master's of English program that I'm honestly too timid to bother the department head with. I've talked to her before, but I don't want to eat up her time. She's a busy person. 

1. Would the Master's be considered the degree for people who have the desire to advance the field of their study, as opposed to the Bachelor's being one for people who just want to advance their own knowledge? Football field metaphor: playing vs. sidelines. 

2. Those who have attained an MA(not MFA, they don't have an MFA program here) with a concentration in Creative Writing(I know I'm fishing for the Loch Ness monster here, bear with me), how was your experience? Would you recommend taking more than 9 hours at a time? 

3. Was the assistantship worth it? The assistantships here work in the writing center no more than 20 hours a week, received a $4000 stipend per semester, and a 9-hour tuition waiver. It's a small program, so more funding is available. My school is primarily a biomedical and anthropological center. 

4. Does the Master's do anything for you professionally? I know we English majors don't do it for the money(yuk yuk yuk), but does the degree command a certain degree of respect in the workforce? Can an MACW even be TAKEN to the workforce, or am I forever doomed to contract as an editor and high school substitute English teacher? 

5. Does an MA impress literary agents? My main focus is writing for novels, short stories, television, and movies. My minor is Communications in Film, Television, and Radio studies. 

6. What can I do to attract attention for an assistantship offer? This university does them on an invite-only basis. TA's have to have 18 credit hours of graduate coursework before they're considered. 

7. What teaching opportunities does an MA open up to me? 

8. Is an oral defense of a novel(the required thesis for an MACW) a grilling session, or is it way lighter than I think? I'm terrified of this. 

9. What is the expectation placed on me by the university? I've heard that the committee I select to preside over my graduate work and thesis are staking their professional reputations on my success, and that's a scary thought whether true or not. Need clarification here. 

10. Most of all, was grad school worth it in the long run financially, etc?

11. Is it appropriate to ask for letters of recommendation, or are they offered?

Thanks so much for any information you can provide. I apologize if I'm stepping on the mod's toes for asking so many questions, but this is a complete unknown for me. Thanks in advance!!!",3,2,1810.2333047813315,GradSchool
r/gradschool hear my RAWR,"I have got to get some advice. Seems like a lot of people here have a good handle on appropriate MS  and PI relationships.  I am on my 2nd year and I am almost having to beg to get my PI's time. He has told me to focus on his programs data collection over my own and very poorly advised my class schedule.  I have not learned what I was told I would learn about want or anything near the amount I want. I feel I am behind where I should be.  I get muddy instructions and am verbally ridiculed when I don't preform. PI is just divorced from his 3rd wife, and is overbooked and dodges colleagues, narcissistic on every mark.  I am upholding my parts of the professional relationship and getting help from the ombud to make sure my ass is covered. He just insulted my fiance and discredited my intelligence in front of my peers. I can go into more depth but lets wrap it up, I am not a punk grad student, I routinely go above and beyond, but lets just say for simplicity I may have a bad PI/adviser.  

Help me. I cant quit. Probably too long in this program to transfer schools. I dont think I have a choice but to tuff it out and I will preserver . Any advice? I have poured my soul into what I am doing here and I feel I have been taken advantage of.  ? Any one have kind words? 
ps throw away account people who know me do reddit

edit spell",2,0,1819.741001540591,GradSchool
Stuck with Motivation Letter.,"I am trying to write a motivation letter for my PhD application. I have searched internet, more i search more i get confused. PhD, i am applying to is actually focused group, they didn't require research proposal. So i guess this letter would be the crucial point of selection. My major confusions are what should be the points of emphasis and how that letter should be started like Dear sir or madam or i should directly start it like an essay starting with quotation or something like that?
I just don't want to lose this opportunity!",1,0,1836.3178186702203,GradSchool
Work schedules and reports,"Folks

 

My periodic cry for help – I am trying to get caught up with the research activities going on in the lab and have been looking through progress reports.  Some of you are making good progress (and you can self-identify).  In most cases, I am worried and distressed.

In some cases I am not seeing anything – that has to change!

In some cases, I am seeing progress – but see comments such as mixing ingridients to get to next step – this is great if there is substantial other stuff to report – however there isn’t.  At this point, most of you are at points where your projects should all be moving at break neck speed and producing multiple papers.  Instead I see a slow crawl to a finish line!  And that finish line is nowhere close to a story that can be published or presented for a patent application or a doctoral dissertation. 

For those of you working on doctoral projects, let me remind you: Time is not equal to degree!

Also, how is it that there are almost never questions or unexplained events in your reports?

Please get your acts together and help yourself to the next step of your career.  Start to plan your time and effort – if there is no effort you will not be successful",3,0,1900.1091844109612,GradSchool
Is Graduate Study in the Arts Worth It?,"I've seen a lot of articles and posts talking about graduate study in the sciences and it's benefits and drawbacks. For someone that's interested in getting a Masters in English or Art History, do you feel the same way about grad study being worth it?

 I hope to eventually teach at a higher education level but have been a little put off by how this sub seemingly feels negative about grad school. Am I just misunderstanding and it's all playful talk? Or do most of you think grad school in the arts is a waste of time?

I'd really like your opinion because I'm just starting this process and would like to have an honest opinion about the world I might potentially enter...",20,2,1925.3368117257758,GradSchool
"considering a MFA, thoughts?","I just finished my undergrad in political science, I have a whole bunch of people telling me  that I am a good writer and to consider grad school for creative writing. Before all the STEM people beat up on me for my undergrad and my potential graduate career, I just want to make it clear I'm aware jobs and funding are not as widely available as they are for research oriented work. I'm just fishing for experiences of people pursuing an MFA or similar. Why are you doing it? How do you survive financially?

My goal is to write a novel eventually (dystopian/apocalyptic/alternative history) but teaching, and other writing/editing jobs are probably more likely and realistic.

I'm in the Chicago area if that is relevant/helpful.",6,0,1934.789786262813,GradSchool
Always check your references,"I just finished reading a thesis from 1994 because it was cited in a paper and I wanted to cite it too.  Not only was the information I was looking for nowhere close to anything that was written in the thesis (same general topic, but the part I was looking for wasn't even close to what they did), but the thesis cited **itself**!  I had to close the silly thing and walk away. 

It was definitely worth the week long wait to get it on loan from another library :-/

I'm glad it was only an extra citation to make my intro more robust. ",2,2,1941.0022862628132,GradSchool
GRE requirements for colleges,Is there any place where I could see the GRE test score needed to get into a school?,5,3,1948.000422836887,GradSchool
Do you ever use or see any alphas greater than .05?,"I have data with a p-value of .055 and it is sooo close to meeting the cutoff. Do you think any journals would accept this data? Have you ever seen it in the field of Biomedical Science?

Edit: Wow, this community is amazing and a powerhouse of knowledge. I am so grateful. My question has been answered. And then some. ",26,2,1953.9245316331835,GradSchool
"Starting online graduate classes on Tuesday, need advice/tips","My degree is campus-based, but the concentration I selected requires one prerequisite class before fall. I elected to do another course while I'm at it, but naturally these two are only offered online during the summer. It's my first experience with graduate level AND online courses, so I'm pretty nervous. Any tips or advice for handling the work load?",4,0,1969.94776079985,GradSchool
Grant Anxiety. I'm a baby,"Hey guys,

I'm a biomedical PhD student in need for a grant. The thing is that I don't know the first thing about grant writing. What's a good grant vs bad. 

Please help?  I have cookies",3,2,1973.2527029294795,GradSchool
So all of the grad students got called into a meeting and we came out with this. At least they're starting to tell us stuff...,,8,4,1995.4214066331833,GradSchool
Probably beating a dead horse but... how do I get goo recommendation letters from profs if I have never established a great relationship with them during the year?,"I know, I should have done so. It would have saved me the trouble I am facing now. I am graduating this year, and I have only had 1 good relationship with a prof, and the other profs were meh. I went to their office hours and everything, but they didn't seem to want to know me as a person... I was open and friendly too. 

So currently I'll be able to only get 1 recommendation letter from a prof, which is not enough for most grad schools. How would I get more? Would I have to cold call professors of old, forcefully get to know them and get them to know me, and then get a letter from them?

Like, am I destined and fated to not go to grad school because of my mistakes made as an undergrad, which led me to not have enough reference letters?",2,2,2001.8601334850352,GradSchool
"When ResearchGate tells me that a lot of people read my paper, but nobody cites it",,2,2,2017.0034899665166,GradSchool
How do you deal with messing up?,"I feel like I mess up all the time, and I don't know how to go into a meeting, especially when I don't have time to fix that mess up...I also feel like messing up is unacceptable in grad school.  Does this mean I should quit or is that just the easy route?",6,0,2017.9707932072574,GradSchool
"My GAship sucks, and other rantings","Just venting via a throwaway account.

I am so sick of being poor. I‘m a 3rd year PhD student at the University of Hawai‘i. I get paid a stipend as a Graduate Assistant. I teach a non-technical introduction to my subject for non-majors. And as my department has no undergrad program, it is of course for non-majors, and is taken by most undergrads as it fulfills a writing-intensive credit (my department, I guess, involving itself in the wider university community). At UH, students need 5 of these sorts of courses to graduate. Sometimes, I feel like I am teaching a completely pointless course that just shovels credit to undergrads who just don‘t care. My training was a four hour seminar by our faculty supervisor. I had had no previous experience teaching, and came straight into a PhD from a BA.

Mercifully, I have had two or three students go on in my department and related departments, and even a few thank-yous during and after semesters, so it does feel worth it sometimes.

While most people would see my situation, living in Hawai‘i, as a great thing, the cost of living and the inadequacy of my pay makes it such that, with my real take home pay after state and federal taxes and health insurance, I am officially below the poverty line (I make just over $13,000 per year, while the poverty line in Hawai'i is [$13,420 per year](http://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty/14poverty.cfm)). I qualify for food stamps ([SNAP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supplemental_Nutrition_Assistance_Program)), a tax credit ([EITC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earned_Income_Tax_Credit)), and a number of other services because I am so poor. My department didn't mention any of this when I got here, nor did any other students. I get the feeling now that I‘ve been here for a while that nobody else knows that we actually qualify for this stuff. I feel dumb for not knowing about it, but I guess I shouldn't.

Graduate assistantships at UH just plain suck. We haven‘t received a meaningful raise since 2004. We are [expressly forbidden sick leave](https://manoa.hawaii.edu/graduate/content/rules-regulations). Under Hawai‘i state law, despite being employed by the State of Hawai‘i, we are considered “student help”, and are thus [not considered a bargaining unit (i.e., the state is legally free to ignore us if we take collective action like unionizing or striking)](http://www.capitol.hawaii.gov/hrscurrent/Vol02_Ch0046-0115/HRS0089/HRS_0089-0006.htm). 

My former adviser left for another university last semester. He was in a different, related department than me. His department was crumbling due to mismanagement and faculty in-fighting, which they gleefully used students as pawns in, and he was happy to get out. I think anyone would have been. The man himself was accused of sexual harassment at least twice by two different students—I wish I had known this going in, and I still beat myself up as I never saw anything. It‘s destroyed three friendships, and in both cases I was thrust into the middle, with both the students accusing harassment asking me to help them show wrongdoing on his part, and him asking me to show no wrongdoing on his part. I can't bear to talk to the students, and I've been avoiding talking to him. All three of us, at different points in time, used to go out drinking after every class. Before he left, I maybe went once a month for drinks with him. The students had both left the country for research abroad.

Now that I’ve had some time to step back and get a little clarity, I can say that he was a pretty smart guy, but also a complete asshole, and not a very good adviser—regardless of any possible harassment. He was the most hands-off adviser that I’ve ever heard of. Maybe that will work for some people, but I had a bit of an epiphany when talking to another faculty member and they criticized a research plan I had as “unrealistic”. I just hadn’t been given any instruction on what realistic is for this sort of thing as I was expected to be smart enough to just figure it out on my own. 

Our plan for when he left was to pass me off onto a professor in my own department that all three of us knew and got along with. This has gone okay, but as my new adviser happens to be the current chair of the department, I’ve maybe got to talk with him once this semester, as he is just too busy.

And all throughout this, I’ve been dealing with mental illness. I’ve known since I was in elementary school, essentially, that I’ve had depression and had had success treating it, to the point that before undergrad I had no longer needed medication or even therapy. But it came back something fierce, along with an anxiety component, to the point that I’ve been getting panic attacks over what is essentially nothing. Thankfully the counseling services at UH are excellent, and I’ve been getting the help that I need on that end. My department has also worked with me well, so that’s good too.

Anybody else wanna bitch? Anybody have any advice?",11,2,2018.4626103368869,GradSchool
Rejections all over - so now what?,"I'm a current senior art history major at a small liberal arts college and applied to 10 schools (for art history), half MA half PhD, for fall 2014. I knew my chances would be slim because I applied many top programs, but I thought I would at least be able to get into maybe one or two MA programs.

Unfortunately I have been rejected from 8/10 of my schools, with two remaining - meaning I have been rejected from every school I've heard from so far. It's been devastating to say the least, and even though I knew there was a chance this would happen, I am kind of shocked. My resume includes many museum internships/curatorial opportunities, I've maintained a GPA over 3.4 throughout college, and had profs who know me very well as a good student write me good recs. I even just found out that I am winning the senior departmental award for Art and Art History. My weakest part was definitely my GREs, though I was led to believe the weight of that really varied by school. I think perhaps my not reaching out to profs at the schools maybe also didn't help, but again I had very little guidance regarding that part.

Anyway, I'm not asking what went wrong so much as what I should do now, since I am not hopeful about these last two. I want to study modern/contemporary art, and am thinking about applying to work at some non-profit galleries this summer, but I was wondering if anyone else has gone through this and what you did to make yourself a better applicant. It really sucks and is not how I wanted to end my last year of college, so I'm looking for anything to keep my spirits up when thinking about my future.",13,2,2022.2546242257758,GradSchool
If you are working on a manuscript and have multiple versions.,,0,0,2030.0902029294796,GradSchool
How to address D grades in non-major courses.,I have a few grad school interviews coming up. I'm not exactly sure how to address a two D grades in non-major courses. I didn't think those grades mattered all too much since I have very good grades in my major courses. But I've had 2 interviews already and they always brought it up. During those semesters I had taken on too many courses and I was working on some research projects that were more time intensive that expected. ,4,3,2059.308397373924,GradSchool
GRE's How long to prepare? Whats the best approach?,I'm currently in my last year of undergrad and I will be applying to PT school in October of this year,13,0,2060.206939040591,GradSchool
Undergraduate research: How to pursue a PI to take you on?,"Hi all,

Undergrad student here with no research experience and minimal lab experience. How do I convince a PI to take me on for the summer? There are a few programs with lists of PIs willing to take students.

I've completed only one semester of my undergrad thus far (I'll have two done by the time the research positions start) and haven't had a fantastic GPA, either. (Probably a 3.15-3.35, we'll see!)

How to structure the email? The reason I'm asking /r/gradschool is because a large amount of you have likely been in my position, and have been successful in pursuing research as an undergrad.

Thanks for all of your help!",25,0,2114.8087330220724,GradSchool
"Hey r/GradSchool! I started a blog about my experiences in grad school and baking. Check it out, if you like :)",,1,3,2134.077749225776,GradSchool
"Grad School, Yes or No?","I have a bachelor's degree in International Studies and work full-time in a related field. My thing is: I'd really like to go to grad school in the near future, but worry if this is actually a good career move. I know it depends on *what* I choose to study, which I haven't decided yet, but I'd really like to do something completely different than humanities (such as science or math) for a variety of reasons. I was wondering if anyone here has followed a similar path, and what advice do you have for someone like me?",10,2,2159.03770292948,GradSchool
GRE Studying. Where do I start?,I took a practice GRE online and got a 160 verbal and 158 quantitative. What should my course of study be to raise those scores to mid to high 160s? Any advice would be great. I took the tests without any info on the GRE so I am hopeful I can improve. ,15,1,2187.850272373924,GradSchool
3rd BS route to PhD?,"I have two bachelors degrees.  I have never worked in the fields of either.  I am considering getting a third bachelor as a means to get into graduate school.  The graduate program I want to go in is not my current field.  If all goes well I plan on omitting to future employers two of my three bachelor degrees.  I've been out of undergrad long enough that any possibility of getting a job in my current degrees is improbably if not impossible.  Is this a good idea?

I want to add I am also physically disabled and live in a primarily rural and industrial community.  99.99% of work I physically cannot do and I am not eligible for disability benefits.  My buddy floated this idea to me as a means to obtain a career path.",11,1,2224.9853533924424,GradSchool
How the hell do I pick a program?,"So I graduated with a BA in English, minor in History, and right now I'm back at home working to save up to apply to grad school AND figure out what programs best fit me. I have no idea where to apply. I know I don't want to get an MA or PhD in English, but right now I'm using that as a last resort if I don't make up my mind. How do I decide? ",4,0,2265.8381543183687,GradSchool
Is a lower GPA a deal breaker at the top graduate schools?,"I'm finishing up my junior year semester and want to go to graduate school in materials science & engineering (which I'll apply to this fall) - preferably to a top 10 school (schools like MIT, Stanford, Cornell, UCSB, Berkeley, etc.). I have close to perfect GRE scores, should have 3 publications by the time I apply (1 3rd author, 1 2nd author, 1 first author) and will have done 2 summer REUs at pretty well known places (in addition to the research I do during the school year). I'll also have good letters of recommendation, 2 from professors I did research with and 1 from a professor whose class I took and did well in. 

After all this, my biggest worry is my GPA which will only be around a 3.6 (while I know this isn't ""bad""... this is definitely on the low side for the top schools). I've been told that research, etc. is very important and I have that going for me, but I've also heard that all this is only important after they factor in that everyone has a really high GPA. Out of the top 10 schools I mentioned up there, I did do research one summer at one of them (and am getting a publication out of it, so the professor is writing me a really strong rec) so I *may* be able to consider that one a ""safety"" with having a ""connection"" there. However, I'm kind of worried about the other schools. Does anyone have an idea of the type of GPA that makes it hard pressed to get into a top school or can having everything else be good make up for it? 

Thanks =)!",10,1,2393.941013114665,GradSchool
Every Monday Morning...,,3,33,2103.527239966517,GradSchool
Being forced to go to a useless conference,"So one of the other professors on my research project nagged me constantly to attend this conference, which is vaguely in my field (although the other papers are kinda random), she was on the committee and I assume they were short of papers. 

Since they gave me funding I had little option to waste 2 days where I could be writing up to present random bits of my thesis (Its not that great since I have presented the main and more interesting stuff at a previous far better conference)

I mean the society behind the conference I have never heard of, their website hasn't been updated from 2011, the conference organiser sent out two contradictory agendas (both completely different) and it just looks like a complete mess. 

I don't want this on my CV since I heard a crap conference doesn't look any good, I doubt they peer reviewed any of the papers ",9,0,1448.264022373924,GradSchool
Aperture grating microscopy is used to capture the electrons of aluminum atoms,,8,13,445.986348762813,GradSchool
When I see my professor in the working in the lab.,,6,25,2398.2873672813316,GradSchool
"Can I get an Associates degree, after getting a BA degree, and use those grades to get accepted into grad school?","I recently graduated with a BA degree, but my GPA is too low (2.93) to get accepted into any decent grad schools. I want to eventually get my MSW, and I know that if my GPA is 3.0+, most schools don't require taking the GRE. This year I am going to be working for Americorps (looks good on resume/application), but I need to think of what I will do after this year. I am wondering if I could eventually go to a two year school, raise my grades and get an Associates in something related to Social Work, and if I can use those grades to get into a grad school? I know I would have to explain my situation in the application essay, but just wondering if I could accepted with an Associates degree after I got my Bachelor's. Thanks for your help!",19,11,1560.3203070961463,GradSchool
Sexual paranoia strikes academia,,4,11,1689.8720779294797,GradSchool
Grad Student v. Med Student,"Has anyone noticed how graduate students slowly decline in confidence and in their mental health? While, med students flourish? What do you think of that? XD",21,0,576.0888371887389,GradSchool
Wanted: MIT grad school rejects,"This is a fairly unusual thing to ask, but ...

I'm applying for the MIT/WHOI Joint Program for my PhD and I'd love to talk to a few people who applied and were not accepted. I've already spoken to several students in the program and they've given me more-or-less identical information and advice. So to get a better idea of where they draw the line between admitted and rejected and whether or not it's effectively a crapshoot I'd really like to see the credentials of a few people who were rejected. I'm wondering if there are a lot of perfect applicants who still don't make it. I'm sure for most MIT programs that is the case.

I have been told:

-have funding arranged when you apply, preferably something big like an NSF fellowship (piece of cake, right?)

-have previous work/intern/research experience in a closely related field

-talk to the professors you want to work with well ahead of time to establish some sort of relationship or familiarity

-have glowing recommendations

-have a near 4.0 undergrad GPA, obviously

Has anyone here met all those requirements and still been rejected?

Thanks.",26,10,2466.619739966517,GradSchool
I'm supposed to be grading papers....,,21,50,2163.78151079985,GradSchool
Please consider not going to grad school,,7,17,1416.8608395035537,GradSchool
You guys are depressing the shit out of me.,"I start grad school in the fall and I subscribed to this subreddit so I could gain a little insight and maybe some tips so I can make the most of my experience. 

All of your rants are slowly chipping away at my excitement to do something I'm interested in. Is it really that shitty of a life that the work you do can't even make up for the negative stuff? 

Can't you start a new sub called /r/gradschoolproblems or something and post them there? 

I do see potential merit in reading about someone's problem to support them and/or learn from their situation, but I feel like this community could offer more than that.

Edit: thanks for the input you guys. I just got really upset when the top post was ""Why did you quit grad school?"" I should have just stayed away from that post but it was the top one and I wanted to see what info was in it that would make it so popular in this community. ",16,16,1926.7135709850354,GradSchool
If I die after submitting this shitty paper... kill me,,13,14,2135.952633485035,GradSchool
Changing last name mid PhD? A question for women/ nonbinary/ folks who've changed their last name bc of marriage,"Hey all, I'm really struggling with the idea of changing my last name. I'm in a great education program and I've had some research published with my last name. I'm getting married to my absolute best friend in September. I want him to take my last name (it sounds really good with his first name). He's never asked me to take his last name, but he does want us to hyphenate it. 

Part of my problem is I just don't /like/ his last name, he's not very close with his family, and he loves loves loves my family. I also don't want to lose/ confuse anyone when I publish future research. 

What have other folks done? It feels so unfair that societally I'm expected to change my last name because I'm a woman.",28,13,102.282598762813,GradSchool
"Late stipend. Will my first check contain the two checks I should have gotten, or will I get two checks after the stipend period runs out?",Late stipends seem to be a common problem. Whats your experience?,5,0,1116.2601797813315,GradSchool
Graduate School Admissions (3.8 CGPA enough?),"Hello, I am a Canadian student currently about to enter fourth year at the University of Toronto. I specialize in East Asian Studies and minor in Religious Studies. I currently have a Cumulative GPA of 3.77 (4 is max), and I'm aiming to get above 3.8 by the end of fourth year. I speak native English, Mandarin, and Taiwanese. As well as conversational Japanese.

I'm basically seeking advice for graduate school admissions. My plan is to go straight into a PhD program in East Asia Studies and skip Masters. Universities I am planning to apply to for a PhD include US Ivy League (Harvard, Stanford, Columbia, Princeton, etc) and also Oxford and Cambridge. To this end, I want to know if my plan is realisitic or not, and how I can improve my odds if they aren't. Or would I basically need to go into a Masters before I have even a decent chance of getting into a PhD program at these institutions?

Also, I would appreciate any information regarding how the pay is for PhD programs at the aforementioned universities. Do you get an paid decently for being a TA on top of the living stipend, and what about scholarships, are they difficult to secure? Tuition is usually waived right?

Thank you!",2,0,1156.9331658924427,GradSchool
What is the most effective way to study for the GRE?,"I'm more of a visual person. I use flash cards for the vocabulary portion and I bought the Manhattan Prep 5lb study book to do practice problem. However, I've always been terrible at math and it's been awhile since I've actually sat down and did algebra, geometry, and trig. Problems. I was wondering what was is the most effective way in studying for the math portion of the GRE?",19,0,1213.2151103368872,GradSchool
TA Problems | My experience as a TA,,0,4,1276.8961635776277,GradSchool
I want to get a PhD in a humanities subject. Should I continue with my PhD at a subpar university or get my MA at a better school?,"I'm finishing my second year in a PhD program at a very low-ranked university that I also went to as an undergrad.  I have a lot of natural talent but I was a terrible student while getting my BA, so when I applied to master's programs out of undergrad, I didn't get in anywhere except the school I had just graduated from, AND they offered me a position in their PhD program instead of the Master's!  At the time it sounded like a great option, because it was funded, and I thought I was just getting the chance to skip my MA and get my PhD.  But ever since I've started it, I've had people telling me I should be working somewhere better.  My professors have straight-up told me I'm the best student they've ever seen in this department and I deserve to go to a better university.  Besides that, I want to work in academia and my field is very competitive, and what school you get your PhD from mostly determines how successful you can be for the rest of your career.

For those reasons, last fall I applied to 15 PhD programs in my major at much better ranked universities, including the absolute top departments in my field (at the advice of my professors).  I got rejected from all of them.  However, one university (not a top school but still much higher-ranked than my current school, and with a program that focuses specifically on my specialization) offered me a spot in their master's program with tuition fully covered.

My end goal is still to get a PhD so I can work towards becoming a professor, but my professors have told me there's basically a 0% chance of being a professor with a PhD from our program--no university would hire me unless I turned out to be the next Noam Chomsky or something.  But my professors also caution me that if I leave this PhD program to take the MA offer and then reapply to other programs once I've gotten my MA, my application will look really messy and it will be even harder for me to explain why they should accept me.  So I'm afraid if I take the MA offer, I will never get a PhD at all, which would be kind of a worse-case scenario for me given my goals.  My professors tell me they will support me if I want to work on improving my applications and reapply this fall, while completing my third year in the PhD program.  But if I do that and get rejected again, I'm basically done and will be forced to complete my PhD at my current school.  And I really don't know how I will be able to improve my application--there are a lot of factors that might have gotten me rejected that I can't change now, like my choice of undergraduate institution and my undergrad GPA, so if those are just dealbreakers, there's no point in my applying again.  I really don't know what to think, but my professors apparently believe in me enough to think I'm good enough to be going to the best programs in America based on my work.  But if that's true, why didn't I get a single acceptance?  And is there any chance I could actually improve my application enough to make a difference?  And if not, should I take the MA offer or finish my PhD at my ""career poison"" institution?",12,5,1277.0093001517018,GradSchool
Can grad students try to publish a paper,"Is it possible to try to publish a paper as a Masters grad student? Or do you need all credentials, affiliations, etc?",12,4,1295.9147052442945,GradSchool
Macs in STEM?,"So I've noticed that not many people seem to use Macs in STEM fields. This may just be the people I see, but no more than a handful of people that I interact with - between local faculty, grad students, lab managers, or conference goers - use them. I am looking to upgrade my tech this summer and was considering a desktop worstation with multiple screens and a tablet. The best budget option seems to be a mac mini and ipad air2, but I can get a PC setup for slightly cheaper (not too incredibly different though). I'm in a field where almost all data analysis takes place on computers in the lab, and that personal machines are primarily used for artcle storage, writing, emails, and music streaming (not coding or graphics intensive processes). I was wondering if anyone had insight into whether it's my own exposure that makes me think that macs are less utilized or the price/something about functionality is the underlying cause. ",30,4,1311.7605964479983,GradSchool
KU professor who used n-word in class discussion is placed on leave,,4,0,1423.9483047813314,GradSchool
What if I get rejected?,I will be starting to contact professors for my research project. What would happen though if they all reject me? Do I just try with a different idea?,3,3,1534.0260825591095,GradSchool
Quant question GRE,,15,5,1864.0944506146648,GradSchool
Ranting about fellowship application.,"
It isn't socially acceptable for me to post something like this on my main account or any social media where I am identifiable, but I needed to vent.

Government websites are the worst.  Somehow this fellowship application is 90 pages, only opens in Adobe Reader, opens external links only in Safari/Internet Explorer, crashes when I try to save, and has three ""application instruction manuals"" that are over a hundred pages each.

I don't know why I'm even bothering, since the application makes it quite clear I'm not ""diverse enough,"" despite there being an additional, special application for ""disadvantaged students only"".  Do PIs have to list their privilege/disadvantages on their grant applications?  I feel like I'm not being judged by the quality of my proposal, but by whether I have led a women-run business, am part of a particular ethnic group, or have some sort of physical or mental disability.  There are seriously PAGES of these sorts of questions on the application.

Should I feel sorry that I don't have some sort of traditionally social impediment?  Should I break my own leg so I can claim diversity?  Get a sex change? Change my last name to something more ethnic?  Am I crazy for thinking this is a problem in the US?  Does it make me a racist/sexist/ableist/ageist/whatever the fuck else -ist you can think of?  

I just want what these disadvantaged groups have wanted for decades: a fair shot, and I don't think I'm getting it.  Is it right to fight fire with fire?  Did I personally do anything to these groups?  Ugh.

/endrant.",8,0,1975.1803418183686,GradSchool
A small issue regarding GPA and excess credits,I am required to complete 33 credit hours to graduate from my program. I have 3 credits in excess. Is it technically possible to force my University to wipe/disregard the 3 credits (which correspond to an F) that brought down my GPA? I've had this discussion with my department chair before and he refused. I am not allowed to graduate until  i get a 3.0 GPA and that class I failed at is not offered next semester. Am i being duped my the college or is the practice of not allowing you to opt out a few excess credits from consideration the standard practice in USA?,10,0,1985.1897515405908,GradSchool
Need assistance with getting scholarships/funding to live and complete grad school- almost homeless!!,"28 female counseling psychology grad student, beginning my second year (I started in the spring) and have run out of funds from my federal student loan (the direct unsubsidized) i do not qualify for the plus loans due to credit history, and without a cosigner cannot get enough extra money to secure housing, books, etc. throughout the spring 2014 semester. Apparently, my school does not budget the loan dispersement to be equalized each semester. I am receiving scholarships from both my state senator and several delegates. However, still it is not enough. I am currently disabled (I suffer from a psychiatric disorder in which I am not been receiving proper medication and have had an ongoing battle with maintaining employment since the beginning of fall 2013 semester). My disability has not yet come through, as it takes several months to process. At this point, I have a notice from my landlord to be out within thirty days if I cannot come up with rent. If I have no place to live, I will not be able to drive to or attend graduate school, and my fight to stay an active functioning member in society will be futile. If anyone knows of anywhere or can offer any assistance, please let me know!",9,3,2081.890434410961,GradSchool
Prospective grad student: is a paper an absolute necessity to get in?,"Hi, I’m an Electronics and Computers undergrad, currently a junior. I’m working with two research groups at the moment, and work is moving along at a rather leisurely pace.

 I will be heading for a research internship in one of the two groups in the summer. There’s this one doubt, however, that’s been at the back of my mind ever since I started to plan for grad school - does the presence of a paper with your authorship matter when you’re being considered? Or is the focus on the quality of research and the effort that you put in? 

I’m concerned about how my chances for grad school will be affected (Masters) if I don’t have a paper submitted/accepted by the time I apply at the end of this year. 

(My grades and GRE score are comfortable for me to not be worried too much for my target schools.) ",8,4,267.28217052207225,GradSchool
First Two Weeks of Grad School: The hardest part is sorting out all the requirements for assignments and due dates.,"It seems the more detailed a professor purports their instructions to be, the more almost (but **not quite**) redundant copies of all that information will exist. Sometimes within the same document.

I find I am spending hours, pouring through the syllabus, various assignment instructions, lesson modules, announcements, calendars, and even discussion group posts just to find all the information and requirements for all the assignments. I don't dare skip reading a single word in any of it. I am forced to create a detailed OneNote outline so I can organize snippets of requirements as I uncover them and only **then** have a good handle on everything that I have to do. Many requirements are mentioned parenthetically in sections that are not even related to said assignment. It is as if they all just inserted information as they thought of it and just kept on typing. 

And all of this is buried within bizarrely inconsistent sections of one or more Learning Management System(s). Apparently these systems let professors have so much latitude with the design of their ""online classroom"" that the user interfaces for each course, within the same LMS, are quite different. That's great for the expressiveness of the professor, but it means I have to learn a different system for each course, even within the same LMS. And I am having to use two different LMSs this semester. 

And then you have due dates. The syllabus will say one thing, the LMS will be set up with a different due date, and the written instructions will still have due dates from last semester, or even several years ago. Professors always say the syllabus is the ""master copy,"" but the LMS doesn't care what the syllabus says. Once the LMS locks you out, that's it.

Yes, I know. I post with my real name. So, it should be said that not all of my professors have made all these mistakes. But all have made many of them. Mostly the redundant information problem. Every once in a while they write up a ""new and better"" description for an assignment they make every year. But they leave the old stuff in there, as part of another document, and that just multiplies every year. 

As an Information Science student, I am now fantasizing about creating a data standard for all of this. It would allow professors to put all of their information in one place for any one thing. That data file could then be loaded into an LMS of choice and it would parse all that data out and put it where it should be. Auto-generate a syllabus according to university standards. Auto populate the calendar with due dates. Any requirement for an assignment that was not specifically tagged as a requirement for that assignment does not count. So the students know what they have to do without digging, and all students are on an equal footing. Then, students could download this exact same data file and their software could auto-populate their task lists in Outlook or Google or whatever other software they want. More complicated assignments could even be imported directly into a modified version of some Project Management software. 

Hey. At least a guy can dream. But for now, back to my fine toothed comb. ",7,3,621.9912561702204,GradSchool
First Day of Grad School for all Spring Starters! Woot!,Just wanted to with everyone luck for their first day or the day back! We will need it!!,1,5,631.4745895035537,GradSchool
Annoyed with overachieving lab-mate,"One of my classmates is an overachieving ""yes"" man and it is driving me crazy. I used to be proud of my ability to set boundaries with my professors, but now I feel like a loser. I am taking care of my responsibilities fairly well, but the fact that this guy can ALWAYS put more on his plate drives me nuts. I feel insecure but I also think it is important to maintain my school-life balance. I feel stuck. Any tips for dealing with an overachieving lab-mate?",11,5,698.9936982998499,GradSchool
PhD students - Are you well connected with other PhD students in your institute?,,7,4,699.3844043183685,GradSchool
Different standards within same department/program?,"So, just made the (apparent) mistake of discussing dissertation progress and chapter lengths with someone else in my cohort. We're in the same department and program, but in different subfields, so I realize it's kind of apples to oranges, but still. It sounds like this person's entire lit. review/theory chapter is literally half the length of my one theory chapter. Again, I know, apples to oranges, different topics require different lengths, etc. BUT this different set of standards/requirements has been a constant theme since I started the program. My subfield seems to require almost twice as much effort as the other ones (with half as much support), which is kind of bullshit if we're all walking away with the same PhD, right?  

Am I the only one...? 
",7,5,932.1570547813316,GradSchool
"PI makes me, and no other grad student, write grants. My research doesn't go so well for years; literally get threatened to get out of grad school. No research is going well, and again being asked to write grants. Can my committee do anything for me?","I really screwed up that title, should read: ""PI makes me, and no other grad student, write grants. My research doesn't go so well for years; literally get threatened to get KICKED out of grad school. NoW research is going well, and again being asked to write grants. Can my committee do anything for me?

Basically, as the title says. We employ people to write grants in our lab, but they always get out of writing grants for my project. No other grad student has to write them and they get out in like 4-5 years. I'm on my fifth year, and my research is going well, and now my boss is demanding that I write a grant for him. I think we can all agree that this is f*cked up and borderline abusive behavior, but I sort of had the shits of my PI and would stand up to him if I knew I was protected. I will certainly get a paper out of my research, and my DGS said that's basically secures me for getting my PhD. I know several of my committee members are aware of how poorly he treats me and are willing to speak favorably on my behalf. But what recourse do I have for getting out of this grant? I received no help or guidance from him my entire PhD and now he wants me to write a walkthrough for the next student to get out in 4-5 years (which is how all my other PhD colleagues get out so fast, they just follow ABC in a previously written grant).",15,3,967.9419158924426,GradSchool
Where to put the thesis statement in a research paper,"Does the thesis statement come before or after the literature review section? Also, can you recommend some books that teaches the research writing process? Thank you! ",13,0,1050.9235246887388,GradSchool
Representations of Women in Comic Books! Help a researcher begin to understand the role comic books play in our every day lives. Participation will only take roughly 25 min. and no identifying information will be collected!,,0,1,1064.2986172813316,GradSchool
Should I apply to good gradschool's even without great GRE scores?,"I'm from one of the smaller school's  and I'm graduating undergrad with a double major in economics and data science and 2 minors in mathematics and statistics. I have a decent GPA(+3.8/4). I want to get in to a PhD program in statistics or Biostatistics. Assuming my SOP and recommendations are good ~ what type of schools should I be aiming for realistically if my GRE has a combined score of 300? I initially wanted to apply for UM Ann Arbor, UC Davis, Irvine, Boston University etc, but I'm starting to think those are too hard to reach especially because of my GRE. The two things I would lack is 1) GRE scores and 2)Lack of background in higher background math courses. I have calc I-III, Linear Alg and DFQ. ",7,1,1077.361036262813,GradSchool
Deciding which schools to apply to,"I'm about to graduate with a BS in CSE, and am in the process of applying to schools to get my Master's starting next Fall. My problem is that I've got a list of schools that I'd like to go to, but it's definitely too long to be reasonable (thanks largely to the hundreds of dollars it takes per application). The list is ranked in terms of how good the schools are, but I'm not sure where I should be ""shooting."" I'm a good student, but not an amazing one (3.5 GPA) so I'm hesitant to shoot for schools like Cornell and Urbana-Champaign except for maybe 1 or 2 pie-in-the-sky applications. I don't know to where I should exactly temper my expectations, and how I should go about narrowing down my list.",9,1,1084.3423441331834,GradSchool
What are some hard science masters programs that don't require a STEM background?,"Age: 26

Education: Undergrad in Mass Media, Post-grad diploma in New Media Journalism 

Work Ex: Journalist with 5 years of experience covering pharmaceuticals and healthcare in India for an international news agency. 

I've always been into science and was great at biology in high school, and writing on health and pharma has made me want to learn science even more. I want learn natural sciences - mainly into geology and astronomy.

What masters programs should I look for?",10,1,1091.550399688739,GradSchool
Planet Earth II visual analogy to my proposed dissertation topic,"Me: [I've got this great idea...](http://imgur.com/a/KoLvP)

My adviser: [Regarding the funding...](http://imgur.com/a/g29zp)

",0,0,1094.242899688739,GradSchool
Should I interview at schools that I'm unlikely to be accepted to?,"I'm taking a trip soon to visit some grad schools, and my list is rather short.  A friend told me that I should interview at any program that interests me, even if it seems impossible that I'd get accepted.  Do you think this is a good idea or is it a waste of time?  What can I expect from a grad school interview?  Thank you. ",9,2,1096.0867191331834,GradSchool
Would I sound like a wimp if I asked my adviser why I was accepted?,"I'm having a rough time in grad school. I feel like my peers are much smarter and more accomplished than I am. I legitimately don't know why I was accepted into this program.

Would I look bad if I asked my adviser why I was accepted? It might give me a boost to tell myself ""the department thinks I can do X,Y, and Z I'd better live up to those standards!""",3,1,1108.2690802442944,GradSchool
Struggling from becoming a Big Fish in a little pond to a Little Fish in a big pond,"I just started a Master's of Science in Biology. I will be working with butterfly physiology for my research.

Before this, I did my undergrad at a ""Canadian Ivy League"" school called Queen's University, in concurrent education for a B.Sc.H of major Biology and minor in Math, and a B.Ed for teachables in Biology and Math. I did fairly well in undergrad earning a 3.75 gpa on a 4.2 scale, which is equivalent to an A- in most places. I also did an honours thesis researching bird behaviour. I did really well in teacher's college getting great references and a confidence in teaching.

I then took a year off, thinking I wanted to just start my career and never go be a student again. I lucked out and got a full-time teaching job a private school for students with learning exceptionalities. It was a great experience, although extremely hard often times. Some of the situations and students I dealt with were extremely difficult, and there were days I came home in tears from the emotional abuse and physical exhaustion. I had never encountered any situations or students like this both when I was a student and during my teaching placements. Another factor was that I felt very much like a Big Fish in a small pond. I was only 1 out of 2 math teachers, and other teachers often asked for my help with math related concepts and activities. Only 1 other staff, out of about 20, had a master's degree. I don't want to seem too big for my britches, but I felt kinda stunted there, and not intellectually stimulated. I wanted to grow and learn again. I decided to pursue a master's in science, with full scholarship, which leads me to where I am now.

The grad school I am at for this master's is called Carleton University, which is considered a mid-tier school at Canada. However, I don't know what it is, but I am struggling very much even though I have only been out of school for 1 year. I struggle to keep up in my grad level biostat course, which I haven't done in 3 or so years. Everyone else seems to know what they're doing and answering questions and asking relevant questions. Meanwhile, I do not even understand the prof's answers or even what the students are asking. Furthermore, the prof goes too fast, at least for me, and I am much too afraid to ask him to slow down. I have reached out to the prof for extra help, and we will see where that leads, but I really fear that I will fail this course. 

The course is not the only problem. I don't understand how to use the research equipment in an effective way. Like for example, I learned how to use the new photographic microscope, but I don't understand the connection between using that and my research. It is the same with the neurophysiological equipment. I can use it and follow the instructions, but I have no idea what I am seeing or how to interpret what comes up. I just don't understand the overarching connection between everything, if that makes sense. I don’t really even know where to start.

I also have a TA assignment, and I got assigned to a 4th year population genetics course. My only background is this was a 2nd year undergrad course. My duties are to sit in on the lectures and mark the quizzes. I even feel stupid there too, because even the 4th years seem to understand the material better than I do, and I am the one that is marking them. I feel extremely stupid and incompetent.

Has anyone ever felt like this? If so, what did you do? I seriously worry that grad school is not for me either, but neither was teaching, at least in that particular situation. I am having kind of a quarter life crisis, and I can’t find anything where I fit in. I am really feeling like I am not good at anything, and I have already had several breakdowns.

Tldr: I did well in undergrad and teacher’s college at a good school. Then I worked as a special needs teacher for a year, but felt like a Big Fish in a small pond as 1 of the only math teachers, and wanted to seek more intellectual stimulation. Now I am in a grad program, and have become a small fish in a big pond and am severely struggling, even though I am in a mid-tier school. 

Please help!",2,0,1120.156661262813,GradSchool
"High GPA, Strong Research Background, Multiple Extracurriculars. Straight into PhD, or Masters?","Title pretty much explains it, but I'm a high GPA student with a strong research background and a ton of extracurriculars, including a couple internships.

I was recently approached by a couple advisors of mine about the possibility of pursuing a Masters or PhD at my current university. 

While directly pursuing a PhD sounds interesting, it does limit the possibility of me attending another institution, especially one more prestigious.

My current university is in the top 150 for computer science schools in the country, but with my current background I'm confident I could gain admittance to a higher tier program.

Both the MS and the PhD would be in Computer Science with an emphasis in Machine Learning/Neural Nets.

Thank you. ",10,0,1121.0363024665166,GradSchool
Friday Update: What have you accomplished this week?,"What happened this week? 

Did you finish a presentation? 

Written an abstract?

Submitted a manuscript?

Let's talk about the good stuff!",5,0,1124.2962677442945,GradSchool
Intruder Syndrome,I heard someone accidentally call Imposter Syndrome this today haha,1,0,1125.9198325591092,GradSchool
Is it possible to book a discounted flight with a student admission letter?,I'm looking to book a ticket to Germany and wonder if airlines offer discounts if you haven't enrolled yet but have a student visa and the LOA.,5,0,1130.416175151702,GradSchool
U.S. News Grad Compass login?,"Does anyone have a login ID/password they're willing to share for U.S. News Grad Compass? 
Normally I'd pay the $30 but I'm a recent grad and applying for my JD/MBA. Between the GMAT, LSAT, LSAC registrations and individual application fees I don't have the funds

Thank you!!! 

--also this is my first time using reddit so if I posted this wrong/weird, my apologies--",20,0,1159.1850524665167,GradSchool
Please critique my appeal letter,"Hi All,

This summer I failed my Masters degree comprehensive final for a second time. I need to writing an appeal letter to be considered for third and final attempt. This is new to me, so I just wrote a first draft and want to ask for y'all opinion.

[Appeal Letter](https://docs.google.com/a/leomail.tamuc.edu/document/d/1H3SQv-Dj-psTulJCOIIHa3MamXdGF0TgYqQV2tuCu_Y/edit?usp=sharing)

[This is what the are asking for](https://drive.google.com/a/leomail.tamuc.edu/file/d/0BwUHuQ--MHlsZG03aEcyTnRSOE0/view?usp=sharing)

Thank you ",6,2,1161.9376797813316,GradSchool
What should I be looking for when picking a university for graduate studies?,"I plan on continuing my chemical engineering education after completing my BS in May 2017. I take the GRE in a week but I haven't figured out where I want to send my scores. A friend sent me the most recent list of top schools for my program, but I'm not sure what makes them so great. Obviously I am looking at cost and location but aside from that I don't know what to look for when choosing a school. So what should I be doing to figure out where I want to go?",12,0,1164.31713579985,GradSchool
"Halfway through masters, thinking of quitting","I'm about to start the second year of my M.S. in agronomy. Due to recent health issues I'm having difficulty keeping up with research and classes. Since the issues are lifelong, I've been thinking about either quitting or switching to a non-thesis M.Ag. degree, but I'm not sure what to do with it other than junior college teaching. My advisor told me it's less versatile than the thesis option. It would require taking some extra classes and an internship, which would mean graduating a semester late, but my research project was going to require extra time anyway.

I'm a little afraid to bring this up with my advisor, I guess because I feel like a failure for either quitting or getting a degree and not really knowing what to do with it anymore if I switch. I just can't keep up with the workload and I'm only guaranteed funding through the next year. Would it be alright to bring it up with the department graduate director instead first? I think he's easier to talk to.",1,3,1170.1296589479982,GradSchool
How soon is too soon to start writing?,"Hi everyone, 

This fall I'm beginning a PhD program in neuroscience. Right now I'm already there, doing an early rotation.

I always hear all this advice about ""always be writing"", etc. and I'm wondering, other than my blog, is there anything I can be writing right now? I would really like to be. I enjoy writing and have written small proposals and grants (awarded) in the past but I'm not sure where to start when it comes to grad school. Lit review for my current research topic (which is partly my own project but mostly me being trained by a post doc by doing his research with him... I like the topic though)? Apply for grant/internship and view that as the writing experience? Is there a way I can already start treating the research I'm doing now as a potential publication? Is it possible to actually already be working on my thesis is some small way?

Or am I getting ahead of myself? 

Thanks in advance for advice.",18,2,1172.8861982998499,GradSchool
does being a good writer help with grad school?,"I'm going into my 2nd year of computer science and I'm interested in going to grad school for computer science. In my first year, I didn't pass any essay I wrote and at the end of the year, I had this thought ""If I can barely write 500 words, how am I able to write my dissertation?"". Around the time of highschool and part of first year, I had the mentality of ""oh, I'm studying science, I don't need to write etc"" but clearly I'm wrong. So this summer I've been reading consistently and was wondering how much will this benefit me for grad school. ",8,0,1179.9857700591094,GradSchool
Am I a viable candidate for a PhD program?,"Hello, 

I know that no one can give me a definitive answer, but just wanted some opinions from actual graduate students on my chances of getting into a Clinical Psychology PhD program.

During my years as an undergrad, I planned on applying for a master's program in psych to become a Licensed Clinical Professional Counselor (LCPC) after graduation. Lately, though, I've been thinking about going into a PhD program for Clinical Psychology to save money and have more career options (i.e. potentially being a professor later on in life).

Here's some info about me:

- I am a Family Studies major and Psychology minor 

- I have a 3.8 undergraduate GPA from a public university

- I am currently working for a psych research lab and will be for 2-3 semesters

- I have not written an undergraduate thesis, but have been offered by the research lab I'm working for to do one under the professor's supervision

- Professor I'm working for said that he would write me a recommendation letter for graduate school. He's published many different papers/books in the psychology field and is pretty well known.

- Haven't taken the GRE yet, but will in October and November (I have two test dates set up already in case I don't do well on the first), otherwise I would tell you my scores. Hoping to get at least a 160!

- I'm interested in doing LGBTQ research and working with this population in my career. I am volunteering for my city's pride parade and hope to volunteer as a mentor for LGBTQ youth in my spare time (if I'm not doing the thesis)

Applications for PhD programs are due ~December 1, but the professor I'm working for told me that I wouldn't be presenting my work until the following August at the APA conference in D.C. I wouldn't be starting my thesis until after applications are due. While I think that the thesis would be a great learning opportunity, I don't know how much it would benefit me to say on my applications that ""I plan on doing a thesis.""

I guess my main two questions are:

- What is my potential for being accepted to a grad school program?

- Should I do the thesis? Would it potentially up my chances of being accepted?

Thanks!",2,0,1183.9819621887389,GradSchool
Am I doing this right?,"My M.Sc research in engineering uses a new method combining and expanding on knowledge from previous methods. It KIND of works but it's hard to say for sure, esp. due to lack of time and resources at this point. I want to have it written in 2 months (before X happens), but I'm worried that once I hand this in the committee will find some stupid mistake invalidating the whole thing. Is there to make a solid (maybe even award-worthy) thesis with uncertain conclusions, and suggest resources needed for expanding on it?",1,0,1194.785897373924,GradSchool
What are your thoughts on an MPA?,"My background: Graduated with degrees in Health Policy and Sociology and a minor in management back in 2013. 

After graduation, I immediately started working as a case worker for local government (the county) for about one year, and was promoted to another position. Thus far, I have three years of experience at the county level. 

What are your thoughts on pursuing an MPA? 
My workplace is providing partial tuition reimbursement for it, but I am unsure if it would be a wise move for me to take it because the program isn't ranked at all. 

Do you think getting one right now would be beneficial for me? I don't know if I plan to stay with the county. I have no idea. I may switch departments depending. I have also been thinking about the state, and would actually love to work at the federal level. 

Any thoughts or input would be very appreciated. 
",10,1,1202.8830501517018,GradSchool
Worth it to visit grad schools before applying?,I was considering visiting a few of the schools I intend on applying to this summer. Do you guys think this is worth it? (e.g. is there any point on visiting when they may very well forget who I am by the time applications arrive in December) Or should I just wait until I have actually applied and/or they invite me for an interview.,10,1,1219.34463579985,GradSchool
How can I be better?,"Some years ago I got a BSc and a MSc in Mathematics. Then I applied to grad school and got some funding. I started working on my Ph.D.

I am myself an intelligent person, but I'm lazy, procrastinating and lack the ability to focus. That has made me an underarchiever (relative to what I could've achieved): mediocre grades, I never mastered any specific cool skill (musical instruments, etc), way too much time wasting my life online.

After a couple of years of suffering, not being able to get a publishable result because I just was not able to do my job properly (studying the topic with dedication, paying attention at a seminar for more than 20 seconds), because my advisor really sucked (he was a bad advisor and I really nasty person) and because I never really enjoyed that field of Mathematics (that happened in 2011, with my country being in the worst year of a very bad financial crisis, the unemployment among young people was really high and the general vibe was ""take the first job they offer you or you will DIE"") I decided to quit. That 28 months of my life, professionally speaking, counted for nothing. That had been my first working experience and I was devastated: I felt totally worthless in life.

Anyway, I was lucky and I got a job a few months after, and I have been working since then (more than two years ago). I'm pretty decent at what I do now, but I grew tired really fast (and there's not a lot of room to grow financially), so I decided to try something else, sent some applications and got a job offer in a field I'm really interested in (and with a very exciting job market and a lot of money to be made). I will start that job in September.

The thing is, that job has a component of ""regular job"" (you work for a company, the company has some goals, etc) and a component of research, where we should also write and publish papers about what we do. The profile of that research would be much more applied and real world oriented, and it would be about a topic I think I can be passionate about. But I'm scared shitless... I am really worry about not being to succeed.

I would like to know what can I do to overcome my lack of focus, to beat procrastinating, to keep the right attitude and not find myself spending hours and hours browsing the interwebz...

I would really appreciate your insight. Has any of you, researchers, find yourselves dealing with this problems? How did you overcome them?",3,1,1224.432737651702,GradSchool
Is applying to Oxford for a Master's in English worth it?,"Apologies in advance if this should go in /r/GradAdmissions instead. I thought this was a bit too general for the content there.

I've always had a pipe dream of studying at Oxford. I've visited the city, I've read about its long history and strange traditions and old-school teaching methods, and I'm just charmed by all of it. I also think it would be a boon to go to such a prestigious school if I want to pursue English literature.

And I really do want to pursue it. I love my program and I like what I've seen of the wider field so far. I have a 3.9 GPA in my major and I meet the other requirements listed on the Oxford admissions site, so it's possible that I *could* get in if I keep working towards it. I've only just finished my second year of undergrad, though. I don't know exactly what area of literature I want to study yet, so I'm not at the stage of looking into potential advisers. I've received frustratingly little information on how to choose a Master's program in this field, so I'm afraid that I'm off in my assumption that Oxford is a good idea in and of itself.

So, my question is: am I being blinded by my preconceived notions of Oxford at an early stage of my academic career, or is the prestige worth the pain of applying? Is it way too early for me to even be thinking about this?",2,0,1231.237459873924,GradSchool
What are people's thoughts on Columbia University's M.A. Climate and Society?,,1,0,1244.735897373924,GradSchool
Should I be negotiating for a better MBA graduate assistantship offer?,"Howdy folks. 

I recently applied to some local MBA programs, and was offered a graduate assistantship at one of those programs. As I never really considered doing a GA as an option for an MBA, I was kinda pleasantly surprised at first that, in exchange for 20 hours of work a week doing ""research"" in who knows what for a professor, I would get my tuition paid for the entirety of the MBA program. Sounded like a sweet gig to me. 

Now after reading some old threads on here, I kinda wonder if I'm getting hosed on the deal. I'll have to still pay for my own health insurance. Parking. From the phone conversation I had with Admissions, it sounds like all of the $15 I would earn per hour would go toward paying my tuition, so I effectively would make zero dollars for the work I would be doing (besides the tuition I wouldn't have to pay of course). And a big unknown would be the tax consequences of all of this. 

On the plus side, I don't really have money issues that most people taking one of these gigs I imagine would have. I have a good chunk of money saved from previous well paying work to pay my COL when I'm in school (program would only take like 15 months). I can also do some contractor work for my prior employer where I may be able to pull in some extra cash to live on without burning through savings. So its not really a life or death issue if I can extract a better deal or not, but I'd rather not dip into my savings if I don't have to. 

This GA was offered to me last Friday, and classes start in like 3 weeks, so I wonder if I would have enough leverage to nudge them enough to give me some extra cash to live on. Anyone have luck doing this, or have any advice on how to ask nicely for more money without pissing them off? Am I stupid for even considering asking them for more? I've negotiated for a living for the past several years, and I really like pushing the envelope but in this case I wonder if it would be prudent to do so or not. Thanks. ",2,0,1275.7475177442943,GradSchool
"If you apply for a Ph.D program after Undergrad, will they still grant you a Master's if you complete the required credits for it?","For instance, if I applied to Standford's Psychology Ph.D program, which takes 5-7 years, if I have enough credits that fit the requirement for a Master's degree, will they give me the option of getting my Master's degree as I continue with the program. I was talking to my mentor and she received this option (University of Pennsylvania) , so I was wondering if all colleges are able to do this. ",17,0,1294.3969621887388,GradSchool
Am I screwed with no research experience?,"Hi, I really apologize in advance if you've read this a million times but I tried looking at similar threads and I wasn't sure how much of the advice there really applied to me. I'm a pre-med student majoring in biology and minoring in psychology in the 3rd year of undergrad. Recently I've realized that I actually would rather go to graduate school for neuroscience instead of medical school. I go to a private liberal arts institution with only so many opportunities for the kinds of neuroscience research I would like to do. Only one or two professors out of the neuroscience faculty actually work on projects pertaining to the biological basis of behavior. Luckily I'm taking the supervised research course with one of them during my senior year in order to write a thesis.

I have no formal research experience, seeing as I've been rejected from every program I've applied to since my freshman year (I am waiting to hear back from two more in a couple of weeks). While I've learned a lot from the extensive projects in my lab courses and have knowledge and experience with basic lab techniques from my lab TA job and some minor experiences I remembered from my later years in high school, those hardly count as research experience. I'm hoping to get volunteer experience or a part time tech job this summer, and I do want to take time off after I graduate to work under a PI. However, I'm not sure how this would reflect on me as a graduate applicant and student.


**tl;dr-**I'm over being pre-med and want to transition into a focus on neuroscience research. With the limited experience I have at this stage in the game, is it too late for me to get involved? Also will this lack of experience reflect poorly on me for graduate school admissions/ability to succeed in graduate school?",16,1,1297.0681427442944,GradSchool
Advice on how to get into ABA program?,"I'd appreciate an in-depth response on how to get into an ABA program (applied behavior analysis). I plan to work with autistic children in my career. I graudated undergrad in Psychology with a 3.5 GPA. Below is what i'm looking for:

* What experience do I need in terms of work/internship to be considered a top candidate for any grad school I apply to? How do I get those skill sets or part-time jobs to be in tandem with ABA? 

* Which grad schools do you recommend that are both the best and ""safety"" schools? 

* What are some guidelines/best practices for submitting my applications? I get stressed out sending my applications and don't realize I submit mine late (I unintentionally procrastinate) or towards the last minute. How can I take it one step at a time and not feel overwhelmed so fast? 

* What are other actions/items should I accomplish in order to be a best qualified candidate? I have a GPA of 3.5 in undergrad. 

* I've been rejected by an ABA program in Alabama and feel discouraged because I feel as though I won't get into any school. What can I do to encourage myself and motivate/push myself to apply to more grad schools? 

* How can I better prepare for grad school overall? I'm not sure what are best strategies or tactics to applying to grad schools, nailing interviews, and seeking connections or networks that would benefit me. I'm new to all of this so the more info/advice/suggestions would be greatly appreciated! ",6,0,1309.2909899665167,GradSchool
Do I need to attend this meeting,"I'm a student representative on a committee for my program. Every time I go there, I just listen to what the professors have to say. I am not asked to take notes, I am not involved in any tasks, etc. Recently the chair sent an email to arrange another meeting.....do I need to attend this time?",3,0,1309.8901682072574,GradSchool
When is the best time to apply for a masters?,"Hi,

I'm looking to do a masters in molecular and cell biology, and I'm wondering when the best time to apply for it is.

If I apply at the start of third year (September-October), I will only have results for a few modules, but usually applying earlier is presumed to be better.  

If I apply after Christmas of third year, I will have my results for some honours courses, including directly relevant courses and more experience/results on my research project - which is also relevant.

Any thoughts?

Edit: I live in the U.K",5,2,1312.3302955220722,GradSchool
Help! I don't understand what my prof wants,"I'm taking this research course and recently we had to submit a proposal. The prof has asked me to revise it like 6 times so far, and I still don't understand what I did wrong. The prof's most recent comment: ""I cannot answer your question because I do not understand what you are interested in exploring. As noted in my earlier comments, what is an outdoor routine? What is your definition of a routine? Are you trying to get at play? I still don't understand how you expect children to draw so many complex pictures.""",6,0,1338.0526797813316,GradSchool
Housing affordability for grad students in Boston + Cambridge,"Hi Reddit!

I’m a Master in City Planning candidate at MIT conducting a survey for a statistics class. This is a survey regarding housing affordability for graduate students and will only be used for academic purposes. It will only take 2-4 minutes and you will be helping out a fellow graduate student who is extremely grateful for your time!
 
Here’s the link and thank you so much:
 
http://goo.gl/forms/fpVad9XKPh
",2,0,1342.2160825591093,GradSchool
Pursue MA/PhD just for MA and funding? x-posted,"Hello
A professor of mine suggested I pursue a combined MA/PhD program so that my tuition and other expenses would be funded. She explained that after I have completed my MA in speech-language pathology, I could walk away no problem. This looks attractive because I don't want to pay mountains of money for an MA. But it also feels wrong to commit to the dual degree but only stay for the MA. Is this normal to do in this field or any other field?
Thanks.",3,1,1343.8592885776277,GradSchool
Picking a thesis topic - How to determine if a project is reasonable?,"Hey everyone,  

I will be starting my Masters thesis in the Summer/Fall this year and have been trying to narrow down my interests into some specific topics I would like to work on. My difficulty is in determining if a project is reasonable for being completed in a year of research. I don't want to reach the point where I need to scale back my thesis goals because I chose a project that was too large or comprehensive to be completed in the time I have.  

How did you guys determine an adequate project size for a MS thesis? I'm in an engineering program.  

Thanks",2,2,1350.2836172813315,GradSchool
Losing Who I Am,"Hello grad students. I need some advice, please.

I'm in my second semester of grad school and I feel like im losing pieces of myself. I'm a teacher going for my MA in School Counseling and also MA in Clinical Mental Health. However, I myself am not well.

I don't eat because I lack an appetite and run around all day. I'm 25 years old and weigh 108lbs and wish I could have the energy to make protein packed foods versus ramen and cheese sticks. One day I ran a red light driving home from work from how fried my brain was. I work 12 hour days and then try to focus on school and find it really difficult.

I snap at people, doubt myself, value others opinions of myself over my own, beat myself up over not being perfect, don't know what I enjoy anymore, feel a tightness in my chest, feel the weight of paying off school every semester on my own on a teacher salary.

My questions are: How do you keep yourself from losing who you are? How do you make the pressure feel less heavy? Does this get better? Are there any tricks to focusing and what can I do to better myself during this process?

I appreciate any advice.",5,1,1356.8682932072575,GradSchool
The schedule for the 2016 series for Canadian Bioinformatics Workshops has been released,,2,0,1357.2616265405907,GradSchool
Statement of Purpose for Masters of Library and Information Science Help,"I just would like someone to review my SoP. If anyone PM me I can share it with them, or we could talk via gchat. Thank you.",0,2,1357.9853649665167,GradSchool
There must be someone who knows what to do??,"So I'm trying to get into OT grad school (occupational therapy [in the US] ) I have a 3.55 GPA (my science gpa is slightly lower because chemistry..) and my bachelors degree is in psychology. Maybe it's just me being scared but I feel like I wont get in, mostly because I procrastinated in applying. Is there any kind of job I can get with this bachelors that is somewhat in the healthcare field? 
ps I live in NY",2,0,1365.1976219109613,GradSchool
Nervous about PhD biomedical science interviews,"I'm an Ugrad senior majoring in molecular and cell bio applying for pharmacology phd programs. I have interviews at 4 of the 7 schools I applied to, 2 of them are ivy league. I have pretty major anxiety so naturally I'm worrying myself into screwing up these interviews and freeze under the pressure even though I know I'm a qualified candidate (very high GPA, good LORs and research experience). Can anyone shed some light on their recruitment weekend experiences? What questions should I expect to be asked? ",5,0,1378.8380270035539,GradSchool
Could someone give me a suuuuuper brief explanation as to why grad school applications are so painful? (uni junior),"Edit: I'm not doing my applications right now (still have one year to finish up my minors). A lot of my friends that are not grad students told me it was a reeeaaally awful process, so I was hoping for some clarification (sorry bout the mixup) :(",5,1,1394.8496126517018,GradSchool
Free or Cheap GRE prep materials,I am considering going back to school after I finish a term of service with Americorp; I'd like an MS in Biology. All of the GRE prep materials I have found have been far too expensive to even consider. Are there student friendly options?,8,0,1398.140561725776,GradSchool
Masters Programs in Food Studies,"Has anyone enrolled in or graduated from masters programs in Food Studies, specifically NYU's? Any insight on what they are looking for in an applicant, or acceptance rates? ",1,1,1405.0139066331833,GradSchool
Worried about Bs in M.A. History program,"My spouse has been struggling in his first semester of graduate school. I earned my M.A. in English and graduated with straight As and a TA-ship. My spouse just got his first grade back and it is a B. He says the rest will probably be Bs too. I know one B is not a big deal, but 3 is right? I just never worried about it before (because I didn't have to). He's really smart I just don't think he has been giving the right impression to his professors and I'm worried about what this means for his future. He keeps saying they're just Bs, no big deal, but I think it is a big deal, from what I've heard. He doesn't want to go on to his PhD and plans to teach high school, but I still feel like this could be a problem for him. So I guess what I'm asking is:
A: How much could something like this affect him in the long term?
B: How do I tell him that this is actually cause for alarm without upsetting him?

Thank you!",4,0,1405.056533947998,GradSchool
"After ~1.5 years out of undergrad, I am finally looking at graduate schools. Any Advice?","First off, I have a B.S in Chemistry/Biochemistry (Double Major) that I received in May 2014. I took some time off to work because I had terrible undergrad habits that caused me to graduate with only 2.5gpa overall, ~2.8gpa in Chemistry. I felt like I needed more personal development(i.e growing up) before going to graduate school (Yes I have corrected these for the most part). I wanted to try working in industry to see if that is something I would be interested in. I have worked at two different companies since graduation. Would this work experience help with the GPA? I am currently working in a GMP wet chemistry lab and documentation here is pretty intense sometimes so I would think that would be a benefit. Also, My final for both semesters of P.chem (Quantum Mechanics, Thermodynamics/Kinetics) were the ACS standardized exams. I scored in the 88th percentile on the Quantum Mechanics exam and 72nd on the Thermodynamics exam (Got lazy at the end there...was hard to motivate myself so close to graduation). Would these be beneficial to bring up in the application process? I can get pretty strong recommendation letters as my advisor and other faculty know that I was a slacker and could have easily done MUCH better if I applied myself (They know I can do the work from their experience working with me, that is the main point I'm getting at). I also did research on polylactide polymers for ~2 years and a semester of research on canary grass genetics. I intend to bring this up as I am 100% certain it would help. I was also thinking of teaching myself inorganic chemistry as I did not take that in undergrad and a professor gave me an inorganic book before I graduated (only ACS track had to take inorganic). Would this be worth my time? 

Lastly, Any advice on the whole process? I don't know which program I would like to be in nor the discipline. I wanted to stay away from the biology aspect. I figured a masters program would be better for me than a Ph.D given my undergrad history but Ph.D offers more funding. I do not mind being in school for a very long time, what else would I be doing with my life that would be more important? I always enjoyed doing things that weren't ""scripted"" like my research where I had to think about how to go about doing things instead of reading a procedure someone else wrote.

Edit: Interesting story. Looking at how to extract metallic Silver from Silver Chloride waste from titrations and how much money it would return was 10x more interesting than my normal work. Found out its not even remotely worth it to try to recover the silver...at least on our scale.",5,1,1405.7390339479982,GradSchool
Friday night data problems,,0,2,1410.8489066331833,GradSchool
Grad Student Population Proportion Assignment Survey,"Hey Guys,

I'm doing a project for a statistics class this semester and I'm focusing on the Population Proportion Test. The question I'm asking is: Do Presidential Debates have an impact on who people will vote for President? I'd appreciate it if you could participate in a survey for the assignment. The link is below. It should take no more than 3 minutes.

[SURVEY](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/Grad_Student_Debate_Survey)

I created a 20 Question survey on survey monkey to get data on: 

*Who watches debates

*Who they would vote for before watching the debate

*Who they would vote for after watching the debate

*Who they would vote for if there were only 2 candidates running


I appreciate if you took the time to complete the survey. I'll post results of the survey after completing the project!",2,2,1421.7177260776277,GradSchool
Looking for crazy stories about Advisors - both good and bad,"For [The Bench Warmer's Podcast](http://www.benchwarmerspodcast.org/) Ep. 5, we're asking ""How do you feel about your advisor"". We've got one hilarious and one touching story so far, but we're looking for more. Do you have one? We'd love to interview you! email karl@benchwarmerspodcast.org.",2,1,1428.3642307072573,GradSchool
Feedback on an interface to organize research papers,"I am working on a team to create an interface for organizing your research papers. Our goal is to make this interface more project oriented than existing solutions. Please click on the following link to give us feedback on our design: http://review-my-design.org/h/share-community.php?mid=74bwvNS12r8E

",1,0,1429.142147373924,GradSchool
Why are you a scientist?,,4,0,1439.1023672813315,GradSchool
I'm dropping out of Grad School mid-semester. Will I have to pay back my tuition waiver?,"I received a ""Graduate Tuition Scholarship"" from my school that covered my tuition. For personal reasons I am planning on dropping out mid-semester. Will I owe the school the money they used to cover my tuition? Has anyone been in a similar situation? Thanks.

Edit: Apparently they were able to get back to me sooner than they anticipated, and informed me that I would not be held financially responsible for the funds that were used to waive my tuition. I asked for them to verify this for me through email (so I would have written proof). Thanks again for the quick responses. There is a lot of gray area on these matters so I appreciate the feedback.",4,3,1441.979647373924,GradSchool
Looking for US-Americans to support online academic survey,,0,2,1442.3883626517018,GradSchool
"Applying to grad schools in Oregon State, Michigan State, Ohio State, UC Davis, Uni of Minnesota + general questions","Im applying for a food science M.S. program and am trying to narrow my options. I made an intense excel sheet and looked up campus stuff but I was wondering if you all had some input? How do you feel about the campus/cities? 
General Questions- I know I want to get a phD but does it make sense to apply for an M.S. and then work your way to a phD instead of immediately applying to one? Do people apply to both programs in one application cycle? Do grad programs look into your dual enrollment from high school?? If I am interested in research with only one faculty member from a university is it a smart move to still consider the school or should I have interest in several faculty members to consider a program? 
Thank you!",18,0,1443.9318811702203,GradSchool
Do I need citations throughout,"For an assignment, the professor asked us to write out the authors' name, article's name, etc at top of page. Then for the summary section, instruction was:

""Here you will provide bullet points as instructed in class, roughly 1 bullet per paragraph (give or take) if it is a theoretical piece or a chapter, and in the case of an empirical article, you will provide a similar summary of the background section, and then address key points of participants, methods, purpose of study, etc., along with major findings and interpretation (from discussion, not results section).""

Is it still required to have citations throughout the page? Even though the source is referenced at the top?",7,1,1444.8455038554057,GradSchool
Advisor essentially rewrote my proposal,"I gave a thesis proposal last week and he said he'd get back to me over the week with comments on it.  I was expecting to get comments with stickies.  [Instead, he emailed me last night at 1am with whole chunks of it rewritten.](http://i.imgur.com/XitoF4f.png) 

Is this normal?  I wasn't expecting so much of it to be rewritten; now it feels like if I make the changes almost none of it is my words.",6,0,1450.0645895035539,GradSchool
I've hit a wall.,"I feel like my body is rejecting the work I've been assigned. I was going strong for the first two months of grad school, staying at school from 7am-5pm every day (as required by my major) and then delving in to homework as soon as I got home until I fell asleep (12am-4am depending). Last weekend I took a ""mental health day"" with some friends and went to Disneyland, which was great, but since then I feel like I can't bring myself to sit down and do my homework. I get distracted, tired, antsy, like I'd rather do anything than whatever bullshit assignment is due next. What should I do? How do I get motivated - or at least more focused - again?",6,0,1450.712286262813,GradSchool
Looking for PhD programs studying the brain through deep neural network models,"I'm looking for Computational Neuroscience PhD programs in the U.S. and Europe to apply to. I'm interested in simulating the brain (at a cognitive level) through biologically-based neural network models. 

Randy O'Reilly's lab at CU Boulder does pretty much exactly what I'm interested in, and I'm also looking at a couple of schools that have Computational Neuroscience programs. Does anyone know of any researchers doing something similar?",1,1,1460.1178533924426,GradSchool
Giving my transcript with the last 4 digits of my SSN to my committee?,"I have a committee meeting next week and I have to give each committee member a hard copy of my unofficial transcripts. My university puts my SSN on this form with Xs, however, they leave the last 4 digits showing. Is it appropriate to give my committee members a piece of paper with this info on it? Will they care?",2,0,1461.0806890405909,GradSchool
Support basic research in Canada by signing our petition,"Hi,

My name is Dr. Michael Downey - I am part of a group of scientists at the Ottawa Institute for Systems Biology (OISB, http://med.uottawa.ca/oisb/) that studies cell biology using large-scale approaches. This type of basic discovery research is essential to maintain Canada's position as a world leader in the biological sciences. Research with the aim of advancing knowledge is the first and critical step in using science and technology to better the lives of all Canadians.

With the Canadian election coming up, it's a perfect time to make our voices heard and ensure that science funding is on the minds of our elected officials. 

Please use the link below to learn more about the importance of discovery-based research and why it's at risk. If you are a Canadian who is as passionate about science as we are, make your voice heard by signing this petition:

https://www.csmb-scbm.ca/advocacy/Petition.aspx

Thanks!
",0,2,1462.1363950591092,GradSchool
What are good ways to meditate,"Throughout my undergraduate years I never felt overwhelmed. Never need to seek help from professors, etc. Now as a new graduate student I actually cried each day during last week. Not quite sure what's up.....but I am feeling a lot better this week.",5,1,1462.8539413554058,GradSchool
Any advice for a married undergraduate students who are looking at grad schools?,"Originally, we planned on just my SO going to grad school, and I would enter the workforce with my Bachelor's (Computer Science) wherever my SO got in. However, I recently got into undergraduate research and I'm really enjoying it. I was wondering if anybody could clarify on the feasibility of us staying together, but also pursuing a career in academia. For example, what are the odds of a married couple being hired as faculty at the same university? ",8,1,1464.119936725776,GradSchool
How personal to be in a Ph.D. app personal statement?,"(I know there is /r/gradadmissions but this sub is way more active.)

I'm applying to Ph.D. programs. Two of them have a personal statement/history essay requirement, which require I speak about my ""academic achievement despite challenges."" How personal should I get about those challenges? Long story short, I was raped twice during undergrad, which had varying affects on me. (The second time was more traumatic.) I was also sexually harassed & assaulted in various minor to semi-major ways through both undergrad and since, which again had varying effects on my mental health.

However I feel self-conscious writing about this to strangers on an admissions committee. I feel like they will see it as attention-seeking or a ""sob story"" (thanks internalized sexism which says women lie about rape for attention!) I also feel like overall, I have had a very privileged life and a lot of support from friends & family, so I don't want to make it seem like I'm digging up some story to make them feel like I come from a ""tough"" background and ""wow look how far she has come"" some triumph of the will BS. So I'm torn about if, and how, to talk about these challenges and how I overcame them, in a way that is dignified and polite without being TMI. 

Additionally these experiences have influenced my research interests, but I feel like it feels weird to say that. I am not applying to women or genders' studies but I am applying to social science programs which are interdisciplinary and interested in working on feminist studies questions within those departments. So I'm not sure if it is appropriate to talk about that in a personal statement rather than the research Statement of Purpose. Both apps were very clear that SOP and personal statements are two different essays and should not be duplicative. 

I'd appreciate either personal anecdotes from successful Ph.D. candidates who talked about intimate stories in personal statements and if that worked for you, and if so how did you do it without being awkward? Also, for faculty who have served on admissions committees, what are you looking for here? Do you get uncomfortable when people spill things like this or do you appreciate the candor? ",5,0,1464.1448557072574,GradSchool
Advice/Edits for my Statement of Purpose?,"I'm applying to the masters of science in taxation program at Gonzaga University and I need some advice and edits before I submit it. Its only three questions and responses have to be less than 150 words.


What matters most to you and why?

What matters the most to me is having a positive mindset no matter the situation. Throughout my life I have realized that my train of thought and attitude has a direct correlation to the outcome of events. In the past I have studied for arduous exams with a morose attitude and an expectation that I was not going to score as well as I had liked to. It is not surprising that my scores ended up reflecting my attitude and thought process. This issue expands beyond just exams; it is relevant in all aspects of life. Recognizing the correlation, I have since started to approach every day with a positive mindset and I am much better for it. I have seen improvements in my academics, health, and overall happiness. Positivity is contagious, and it has a valuable impact on those around me.

What are your short-term and long-term career objectives?

Through the fantastic education in taxation I would receive as a Gonzaga student, I first want to be a tax accountant and hopefully work for a big four firm. In doing this for three to five years I hope to gain a wealth of knowledge and experience that will propel me into the next step in my career goal; law school. Once I attain a J.D. I hope to use my qualifications to become a tax attorney. I have little interest in being a legal tax consultant for a large corporation, my goal is to help individuals settle their tax disputes with the IRS. I have personally seen the effects of a tax dispute on someone I know and I hope to alleviate the tension and find reasonable terms for those affected. I also aspire to conduct some form or taxation research on corporate tax evasion and its effects. 

Why Gonzaga?

I am not going to waste words on clichés like the ranking of Gonzaga’s program or the job placement rate, it is obvious that Gonzaga has the tools to help me write my ticket to a comfortable future. I am more interested in the quality of knowledge I would receive. In speaking to a MAcc student from Gonzaga I know, and in speaking to Jon Billings, I am confident that the knowledge I would gain from this program is second to none. In researching the faculty profiles, having faculty with extensive industry and research experience presents countless opportunities to learn from more than just a textbook. Personally, I fell in love with the school and wanted to attend Gonzaga as an undergrad but I was waitlisted. It is an intimate goal of mine to prove that I possess the caliber of academic excellence and motivation to attain admission to Gonzaga.
",2,0,1464.2256311702201,GradSchool
I royally fucked over my masters and yet still I want to be in academia. What should I do?,"I was an international student who studied Mech. Eng. at a OK UK uni (not that great and not that bad) and scored a 2.1. I was active in trying to get any lab time with some nano tech professors to help get a recommendation letter for my application for my nano Masters program. 

The Masters program all the problems I had been able to shove away like a functioning alcoholic came to fore and I faltered seriously. I basically did nothing that I can show for the whole year. I was in counseling for quite a while during that time. 

My teachers were quite nice so they understood my problem and gave me a second chance but due to bureaucratic fuck ups it started with a giant hiccup and then it kinda went downhill. And then due to some visa troubles I kicked out of the country. 

But with help from the sci-journals, research on best work practices and my counselor I was able to make a recovery in my efficiency and was able to work through quite a load off my assigned work. And then I had to relocate again to live on my own in another country. And I fucked it all up again. 

The reason I am telling you all of this is to ask what I should do next. 

*I really really want to do PhD on this nano idea that I have, but I don't know what my options are or if anyone will even take me in. 

*Should I forget all of this like a bad dream and just find a suitable job.

Thank you for all your help.  ",4,0,1467.0732700591093,GradSchool
Masters with ADHD/Depression/Anxiety; iStruggz #help,"Quickly typed rant. Sorry, but I had to get something out.

Straight up struggling right now. Was trying so hard to stay on top of things and get ahead this semester, but that has all but happened. I'm behind on my TA responsibilities, keeping up with coursework readings, projects, and research. I even got an extension from my advisor who teaches a class of mine on a homework assignment because I take several medications and due to doctors not syncing up I had to go off of one of them for a few days unexpectedly, which messed me up mentally and emotionally, but I'm still not done with it. I'm embarrassed and hope he doesn't see me as a poor student (which he said I don't need to worry about that), but I can't help but think that of myself. This is not who I am and I know I'm capable of excelling in this program as my past academic record has showed, but I feel like I'm drowning and no one is throwing me a life raft. I'm having the hardest time finding a balance between staying mentally and physically healthy and staying on top of my responsibilities. I can't find a balance. I sacrifice getting work done for sleep, don't eat as much as I should because a lot of the time I am too tired to cook dinner or even make lunch when I come home from being on campus all day, so then I am nervous to get back into weight lifting for fear that I'll be burning calories that my body needs just to function. I mean, I'm a group fitness instructor, even though I'm not teaching right now. I love working out, I just haven't gotten back into a groove for quite some time.

This is also a hard week for me as the one year anniversary of my Dad's passing is Saturday. I'm trying not to let it affect me this week or cloud my brain, but it's really hard not to. I had taken over a month off last fall to be at home with my family attending to that and with him in hospice, and then decided to take this past spring and summer off to give myself a break and get back to a level playing field mentally and emotionally. Still struggling though. I'm trying to be kind and understanding to myself given all of the 'obstacles' I have that I'm dealing with, as my therapist suggests for me to do, but I've always been so hard on myself as I'm a perfectionist and don't know how to stop that negative mentality. I feel like despite everything that has gone on I still believe I should be able to perform to the level that everyone else I know seems to. Even though all of these diagnoses are new (especially the ADHD one) I can't seem to grant myself the patience and understanding of having to adjust to life with them right now. I can't help but beat myself up and feel shameful, which only makes things worse.

I fear that if this keeps up I'm going to get kicked out of the program or something. I don't have time to waste because my to do list is always so long and growing, but I can't seem to get myself going sometimes. I don't want to just get by in this program, I want to excel to and past my potential because that's always what I've done and how I've been, but damn is it hard to do so right now.",2,0,1469.285538577628,GradSchool
Cancer research without animal testing : Is it feasible?,"Hello /r/gradschool!

&nbsp;

I am currently a grad student, and I plan on graduating with my MS next year and advancing to pursue a PhD in Cancer Biology. I'm looking for anyone with experience or resources relating to cancer research that explicitly refrains from using animal models. 

&nbsp;

What I'm looking for is to know if animal-free labs studying cancer are making significant progress, and if pursuing this type of research is feasible. This is derived from my personal system of beliefs and ethics. Online I've found a small handful of groups which promote and exclusively fund research which abstains from all nonhuman animal models. What I am **aware of, and not looking to learn more about** is the contribution to modern science and technology from animal research. 

&nbsp;


Thanks! :)",4,0,1496.7836520035537,GradSchool
"Finally, a magazine just for adjunct professors.",,0,1,1500.008871910961,GradSchool
Getting two Master's degrees in completely unrelated fields?,"So I have a bachelor of music in vocal performance. I was top of my class, with a 3.94 GPA, summa cum laude, lots of awards, full academic scholarship, yada yada. This has not worked out well for me. There is little work in this field. I am terrified that I will end up being a waitress my entire life if I don’t do something about it. 

I now want to return to school to get a double Master's. I want to get a master's in music composition because it’s my passion and I really want to pursue it and get a PhD eventually. However, I know that there are very few job prospects in this field. So, I also want to get a masters/Phd in something else that has a lot of job prospects and is something I don’t hate. I want the second field to be something where I am guaranteed a job in that field.

What are some fields I can go into that meet those requirements? I like science, anything that involves creativity, or the arts. I would also like a career that involves traveling because I want to see the world. I thrive in an academic environment, so I’d do well in a field involving research or study of something. Any suggestions? Is it even possible to get two Masters/PhD in completely unrelated fields?",11,0,1505.0452839479983,GradSchool
Graduate School for the College Athlete | GradHacker | InsideHigherEd,,0,0,1505.229913577628,GradSchool
Day 1: already thinking of dropping out,"Hey guys! Currently working full time at an investment back (~ 40 hrs a week) and was accepted to grad school for an MA in economics starting September. Before the courses begin there is a review course for math and stats, which is followed by an exam, that you must pass before advancing further.
Yesterday was the first review course, and while the prof and peers were flying through the econometrics material - i was sitting there trying to recall how to multiply matrices and what the heck Cramers Rule is. Came home and realized it will take me approx endless hours to review and that wont even cover today's material, and I've got to be at work tomorrow morning...
Had a panic attack, went for a walk, cried a bit outside.
If i'm so behind on stuff that's supposed to be review - what the heck am i doing here? Should i cut my losses and just stick to my job? Not sure if the review course is a scare tactic to weed out the lazy candidates, or if legitimately this will be the pace of the course and the intensity of it.

TL;DR Really behind in review material course, because i never did it in my undergrad. Contemplating quitting and getting a refund on tuition.",7,1,1512.1102492257758,GradSchool
Curious about sample essays. Did you guys write one specifically for applying to grad school? Or did you use one from your undergrad?,"The title pretty much says it all. I'm considering applying for grad school for 2016 and some of the programs require a sample essay. Should I use one I scored highly on in during my undergrad or should I write a fresh one specifically for the application process? I guess it could be beneficial because I could maybe cater the essay to the program I'm applying to. 

What worked for you guys?

Thanks!

edit: For clarification, I mean a writing sample. ",9,0,1514.1586288554058,GradSchool
Had a rough patch and let my GPA drop below min. Suspended and not sure what my options are,"My GPA fell below the Graduate school minimum of 3.0.  I took a semester off (Fall 2014) and took classes Spring 2015.  I did much better, but not enough credits to pull my GPA to the min.  Since the year probation lapsed, I am now suspended. 

I've been e-mailing with my school's associate dean and he basically said that I can apply for reinstatement in one year.  I'm not sure if there is anything else I can do.  If I was able to take courses this fall and do well, my GPA would be above the minimum.  I took a semester off to reflect and came back with serious effort.

I've tried to contact the Dean, but haven't heard back. 

I'm not sure if there is anything I can do now to enroll in classes this year.  
I don't know if me taking classes at a community college would do anything to help the situation, seems sort of pointless.
I also just don't know what to do with this year if I am not able to enroll in courses. ",2,0,1520.191047836887,GradSchool
What are the usual factors that get people waitlisted,My recommenders wrote strong letters for me....had good marks...but still got waitlisted for a program.,8,0,1521.8101103368872,GradSchool
Best online Master of Finance with name recognition in DC area?,"Currently I'm a Sales Analyst and I'm planning on starting my MSF in the Fall or Spring. Any advice would be great, right now I'm considering Penn State World Campus and University of Maryland University College. My goal is to be a Financial Systems Analyst at the Federal Reserve.",0,1,1532.8142422813314,GradSchool
My boyfriend is moving to the other side of the country for his PhD. How can we handle the distance ?,"I thought you could help me with this, as this may be a common situation amongst PhD students. I would like to apologize for my English, as it is not my first language.

It's been almost nine months that I've been living the dream with a man I deeply love. Each of us has his own apartment but we kind of spend every other night at my/his place ; sometimes (especially during vacations) we happen to spend a whole week together, so I guess I have ""sort of"" experienced what it's like to live with him on a daily basis.

These last months have been quite busy for the two of us, we are at two different moments of our lives : I'm undergoing a two-years degree while he just graduated from engineering school after five years. Turns out he's interested in research and thus has been searching for a laboratory that could pay for his PhD.

As of now, it is getting very likely that he's going to move to Grenoble (a French city, southeast of the country). I live in Paris, so there will be about 600km (373 miles) between us.

I admit it's not that far, when you compare it to other long-distance relationships, and I guess we will see each other on holidays or something… The thing is that I'm a rather anxious person ; it's not my first relationship, but it's working really, really well between us and I truly want it to last as far as possible.

As for him, he seems (at least on the outside) pretty relaxed about this. He's assuming that we just have to do our best, and what will happen will happen : if it doesn't work out well, then we won't have to feel bad about it, because we would have given all we could.

We did think about a few ways to keep in touch in ways that could be interesting : he's always wanted to draw a webcomic, and thought his upcoming life as a doctoral student would be the perfect occasion for it (like a French version of xkcd). On the other side, I have a lot of things going on in my head (thoughts I've had when reading some philosophy / social sciences ; updates about my learning of maths and C++ ; art references I noted in class that I've never bothered to check…) and having a place to write it out would be perfect. In my opinion, it would be nice to get to know each other's life through this angle ; what do you think ?

I hope you can give me some insight and some advice to get ready for this.

Thank you !

**tl;dr**: I'm rather anxious about my boyfriend moving 600km away for his PhD during three whole years. Have you ever had a long-distance relationship ? How did you handle it ? What could be a thing to keep in mind ? Could keeping a blog of our everyday lives be a good idea ? ",8,2,1537.4258163554057,GradSchool
What are some encouraging quotes?,"Got a friend in the department who is discouraged when her research idea got turned down, and I am trying to find something encouraging.

Halp! Thanks all",3,0,1540.9078996887388,GradSchool
Looking for a change in direction with grad school,"I'm one semester away from finishing my undergrad now (chemical and materials engineering in NZ) and am pretty keen to go into computational engineering/modelling as a postgrad (particularly in stochastic methods). I'm fairly aware though that my undegrad doesn't really prepare me for that as well as, say, an engineering science or computer science degree might, hence I'm thinking that it would be best to go into doing a Masters first before I continue into a potential PhD. So a couple of questions:

- Are there any recommendations people have of programmes running computational engineering (or similar things) that I might not have heard of? Being from NZ, the first names that come to mind are the usual Ivy leagues + Stanford, MIT etc.

- Does my undergrad not being in exactly the same discipline as what I want to do in postgrad affect my chances of applying?",1,1,1550.7360362628128,GradSchool
What Math Subjects Should I Understand for General GRE?,"I'm currently preparing for the GRE this fall and so far I am doing well. However, when it comes to the math and quantitative section I have no idea where to start. The last math course I did was precalculus during my freshman year 3 years ago. I am a history major who will be either be pursuing modern Soviet history or International Relations (I plan on becoming a Foreign Service Officer for the US Department of State, when all is said and done). In other words aside from the precalculus that I struggled through during my freshman year and organic chemistry during my sophomore year (which I happened to love and did well in the math), I have pretty much forgotten anything math related. Now I am (balls)deep in Khan Academy when it comes to brushing up on how to figure out the perimeter of a triangle and I have been digging out my old textbooks from highschool and college. I have also been to Magoosh and Manhattan. But ultimately when it comes to math subjects,  what will I be expected to see on the GRE? Will there be geometry, calculus, linear algebra, or statistics? In essence I am asking where should I start in terms of math concepts and where should one be in terms of comfort of understanding complicated math subjects? ",3,0,1554.1640686702203,GradSchool
"About to finish what I feel was a disappointing masters, and now I don't know if I should apply to PhD programs.","Hi everyone,

so I'm about to finish my masters (well trying to in the next few months), and at this point, the self-loathing is kicking in. 

For a little background, I went to a fairly average school, volunteered with some profs, and ended deciding I would like to try graduate school, at least for a masters, and depending on how it went, then decide whether to continue on to a PhD. I was very naive when it came to this whole grad school thing, so I ended up applying to only 2 schools. One was my okay undergraduate school, and the other was my dream school. I was in serious discussion with one professor from this dream school, and ultimately found out in June (while I was planning on starting the same September), that he didn't get the funding needed. I an attempt to not waste any more time and start my masters that fall, and what was in hindsight a bad move, I decided to go back to my undergraduate school and work with a prof who offered me a position, in a topic I was indifferent about. 

I ultimately feel like I got very little supervision, and ended up learning everything on my own which was often frustrating (his students end up teaching him about techniques/methods that he should be familiar with). Worse was that there ended up being next to zero funding. My project ultimately ended up being based on an incomplete data set that was collected before I came into the lab, with many issues. It felt as though I was trying to squeeze blood out of a stone with this data, and what was most frustrating was that I never got to spend a nickel on improving this dataset, because of the zero funding. What bothers me most is that the PI seems to not have a care in the world about it. Multiple grad students are drowning, both due to the lack of supervision (never on campus/responding to emails) and a lack of initiative on his part (I know for a fact multiple students HAVE gone to the department heads to complain about him). 

The worse part is that now I see other students from the same cohort, finishing up their masters, and doing so on great terms, some even publishing their papers in high impact journals! Of course, these students were in some of the more prominent labs at this school, while I sit here with nothing to show for 2 years of work. As I've been told before, comparing yourself to others is a game you'll often lose. 

I'm not saying I deserve success, but I feel like I ended up putting myself in a position more so to fail than to succeed. That came down to being naive when first applying. Knowing what I know now, I feel much more confident in how I should go about applying to work with various PIs, and getting a sense if it'd be a good fit.

Now at this point, I know what type of research I want to be involved in, and how to go about getting a better idea if a potential school/PI is a good fit for me. I enjoyed research, but I also hated the whole grad school thing in general at times due to the other issues mentioned. I feel strongly about continuing a PhD, but hopefully in a school/field of my liking, but with how this masters went and comparing myself with others, I really feel like I'm not competitive at this point. 

Sorry for the rambling, but I guess my question really is, to what extent can a masters, with no publications, negatively impact a PhD application? I'm hoping the skills I learned would mean something, but I've been also told that finishing a masters with no publication can hurt you quite a bit if you plan on then applying to separate PhD programs. 

Any opinions on this would be great. Back to writing this thesis...",2,2,1554.2556543183684,GradSchool
When can I start a PhD?,"Hey guys,

I'm at a Canadian school and finishing up with my MSc this summer. I failed to apply to a PhD last semester because I was still contemplating whether or not I was actually cut out for this shit. I'm feeling a bit more inspired now that my thesis is almost complete. So I'm wondering, is there any chance of starting a PhD in the Winter 2016 semester? Or will I be forced to wait until Fall 2016? What would you guys recommend for starting a PhD as soon as possible?

Cheers",7,0,1557.859149688739,GradSchool
Looking for Ph.D. programs in Eastern Thought--suggestions?,"I've been looking at UChicago's Divinity Ph.D., specialization in Philosophy of Religions. I'm also looking at the California Institute of Integral Studies' program in Asian and Comparative Studies, as well as UT Austin's department of Asian Studies. Other options? ",1,0,1569.683987651702,GradSchool
Recommendations for grad programs in the Midwest/Pacific Northwest,"I live in Indiana with my husband and 10 month-old daughter. He just finished his BS in music and I have 4 credits to complete my BA in French. We hate it here, and plan to relocate permanently to whatever city we end up in for grad school. He plans on studying music education and I am continuing in French/possibly TESOL. Those of you in the Midwest/Pacific Northwest: what is your opinion of the city in which your university is located? Specifically interested in cost of living, public transportation, employment, crime, etc. Do you like your program/department/university? Would you plan on staying there after graduating?

I have used aggregate sites to compare factors such as median income, cost of living, etc. but would appreciate an insider's perspective. Merci d'avance.",3,1,1570.0680501517018,GradSchool
What does it take to be a Graduate Assistant?,"Thanks!
",3,1,1574.3142307072574,GradSchool
Is undergraduate research/thesis supposed to be this confusing?,"Hi. I am a senior Aerospace engineering student. 
I have only 1 and half month to graduate, and not even close to finishing my thesis. I have no clue what I am doing, and the professor is not very helpful because of language barrier. I do everything he instructs me to do, and then he would change the instructions, asking me to do different things ASAP. He is always telling me that I am not progressing fast enough etc. 
To be honest, I have no clue what I am doing, and I have no one to ask for help, since all my laboratory members are on a break. 

Is undergraduate research supposed to be so perplexing or am I just not ready for graduate school? 
I have been asking myself whether I have learnt anything in this 4 years, though I managed to keep my GPA 3.8 out of 4.0.",10,0,1577.004311725776,GradSchool
I JUST WANT MY $#&@! LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION,"It will take you 30 minutes of your day. I know you're a busy person, but I have been asking for three months. You've told me several times it will get done by the end of the week. Now I'm going to have to submit my application and I'll be short one letter of recommendation. 

If I could write it for you I would, but the university uses some fancy new web form. ",6,2,1594.1425524665165,GradSchool
About to Graduate? The First Year: What to Expect & How to Survive It,,0,0,1617.1200293183686,GradSchool
Thoughts About Graduate School: Q & A Interview About Science Ph.D.'s,"Anna is a graduate student at the Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences at UT Health Science Center in San Antonio

**When did you first become interested in pharmacology or science?**
My interest in science began in high school, but really became something I was passionate about during my undergraduate studies. I found my chemistry coursework as an undergrad to be challenging and fascinating, so that is most likely where I decided to commit my life to science.
It seem like the more I learn about new scientific concepts and techniques, the more motivated I am to continue to pursue this path.

**When did you decide that graduate school was the right step for you?**
By background is mainly in chemistry, so after completing my M.S. in chemistry I knew that I wanted to diversify my knowledge base and skillset by integrating a biomedical science component into my academic career. 
Pursuing a Ph.D. seemed like the best way to attain the biomedical component to my knowledge base and the continued scientific training that I was hoping to achieve before entering the workforce.

**What have some of your favorite memories in graduate school been/what have you learned?**
Honestly, my favorite memories in graduate school pertain more to the folks I have met while studying here rather than anything related to science. Graduate school comes at such an important time in our lives that so much happens in the years in which you are fervently pursuing this beast of a degree. 
I have a very close knit group of grad student friends whom have been together since our first year, and since we began this journey our group has experienced the wonderful gifts of many memorable group road trips, five marriages and one child. So much in our lives has changed since we first met, but the one thing that has remained the same is our unyielding support for one another both in science and in life. 

Thus far as a graduate student I have learned so many things, but I would say that the most important things are to 1) remember to think outside the box, 2) work hard as much as you can whenever you can, and 3) resort to margaritas in times of experimental roadblocks.
What advice would you give to a prospective student interested in graduate school?

If you have a true passion for science, then the desire is definitely there in terms of whether or not you should attend graduate school. 
Ultimately, whether or not you survive depends on hard work and determination, so make sure you’ve mentally committed yourself to both before you embark on this epic journey. Like any experience in life, there are good times and bad in graduate school; the key to survival is perspective and an excellent support system.

**Why did you choose the UT Health Science Center?**
I chose this institution because, unlike the other places I considered for graduate studies, UTHSCSA felt very homey and close knit when I visited. I met with Dr. Nicquet Blake, and instantly felt like she had a personal interest in my success. 
To me, feeling like the faculty cared about whether or not I could “sink or swim” was just the sort of support system I was looking for. I was also incredibly impressed with the vast amounts of different translational research that was taking place at this institution. 

Moreover, the fluid nature of the disciplines, wherein collaboration between labs was fostered, was very appealing as well.
What are your career goals? Do you feel adequately prepared for your career?
I think it’s too early just yet to discuss my career goals, as I was once told by a wise upper-level graduate student to take small bites of the colossal sandwich that is the completion of graduate school. However, I do know that whatever I decide to pursue after my completion of my graduate studies, I will have been more than adequately prepared by my guiding mentor, invaluable department, and supportive peers.

- See more at: http://gsbs.uthscsa.edu/blog/thoughts-about-graduate-school-q-a-interview-with-anna-mancha#sthash.hnez8sRL.dpuf",0,0,1629.0883163554058,GradSchool
What to expect from Grad school??,"I'm applying to an MBA Program for Fall of 2016. I have been working in the financial industry for two years & have another year and a half of internship experiences. 

I'm hoping this MBA program focusing on business strategy to help open up doors for higher positions. I'm not sure if I want to stay within the financial sector (its a highly regulated and bureaucratic environment) with no room for innovation. 

Going back to the main question; Im not sure if I'll be applying for a full or part-time grad school program because I'd like to keep working & make some money to pay off some loans. I'm worried about the workload & ability to juggle between these two things. I do not want to compromise the quality of the work I produce either professionally or academically...

I'd appreciate any feedback...",3,0,1640.3684436702206,GradSchool
"What are the truths/misconceptions of each of the following two statements: A Ph.D. pigeonholes you, vs. A Ph.D. opens wider opportunities.","I wanted to be a field biologist, but was told by far too many well-meaning but ultimately wrong mentors, ""Nobody does that any more. If you want to be a biologist, you have to be a biochemist.""

In Undergrad, my biochem professor was crap while I had a couple really excellent organic chemistry professors, so I changed focus.  Now, I'm 4+ years in to an organic chemistry Ph.D. with fantastic, amazing class grades/GREs, but no real passion for my research and no idea how I'll push myself through the end.  I'm in a chemical ecology group, but I really should be on the ecology side, not the benchtop chemistry side.  Will finishing the Chemistry Ph.D. help my chances of ending up in a more field-biology relevant field, or just pigeonhole me as a bench chemist?",1,1,1651.2257584850352,GradSchool
One of my NSF GRFP reviewers did not read the correct research proposal.,"Is there *anything* I can do?? They mention that my proposed research will incrementally improve treatment for atherosclerosis in diabetics. The other reviewers clearly reference my actual proposal. The one reviewer also said something about how I provide limited insight into how this will impact the community... Which is also not true at all. I can't tell if they read the correct personal statement or not, because their feedback there is a bit vague.

Is there anything I can do? The only reason I even care is because I think I was likely on the cusp of at least an honorable mention... Thanks!",9,3,1659.1971705220724,GradSchool
UT Austin v. University of Michigan (PhD in Finance),"So I recently got accepted to UT Austin's Finance PhD program, and am on the waitlist at University of Michigan.  Both schools were amongst my top choices in the application process.  I visited UT Austin's campus earlier this week and am going to Michigan next week, so I'm hoping to decide ASAP after my visit with Michigan is done.  I think the program at Austin is a great fit, and think there seems to be great potential there, but I know historically Michigan has been known as a better program.  Currently though, I think both are pretty comparable in terms of academic quality (probably around top 10 or top 20 depending on who you asked or what ranking you're looking at.  I'd say right now I'm leaning toward Austin, and will most likely accept their offer if after visiting Michigan, I still haven't gotten an offer from them.  


I was wondering if anyone here has any thoughts about either program, or about how the two programs compare with each other.  Thanks!",4,0,1663.4038834850353,GradSchool
How do you guys afford to live?,"So I graduate in April and plan to apply for my PhD by September, and I've been doing some research and the average cost to attend per semester is close to 25-30 grand. It will be a STEM program, and I realize that if I am able to get a stipend and of course apply for grants/scholarships; but still it seems rather expensive?

And in a labor intensive field that I would like to get my degree in, how do you guys do it? Part-time jobs...but where is the time? 

Thanks",8,0,1681.3644853368871,GradSchool
Undergrad and masters in 4 years,"Hey guys, it turns out that with careful planning and some hard work I can actually squeeze in the bachelor's degree + the masters degree in the 4 years it would usually take me to do an undergrad. I am a computer systems major(yes, not full computer science as we dont have one in my university) and the masters would be in Data Science. Should i do it this way, it would definitely save me money, but im afraid that many people would doubt both degrees because they were done in 4 years rather than the usual 5-6. Finishing this early would help me get a second masters degree done when im 24yrs or either work and stop depending on my parents earlier. Should i do both in the 4 years? ",2,0,1694.1855154294794,GradSchool
"Current Undergrad Physics Student, Looking for General Advice About Graduate School","Hello I just found and immediately subscribed to this subreddit today! I am currently a second semester freshman pursuing a degree in Physics and Mathematics, but I have had my future plans for grad school on my mind quite a lot as of late. If anyone has any advice you feel I would benefit from about graduate programs in either Mathematics of Physics the help would be greatly appreciated.",2,0,1695.0315455220723,GradSchool
How much does it cost to do a master in Brazil?,"I'm Colombian, currently living in Medellín. A master here is kind of expensive and I've been considering the option of doing the master in a foreign country. Brazil seems like a pretty good option, especially because there are no tuition fees in public universities. But I don't how high the living expenses would be. I've read that in Recife and Campinas you can live with only 200 - 250 USD a month. Is that true? Is actually that cheap (I suppose things in Río and Sao Paulo are very different)? I would to like to hear a more detailed experience of somebody who did a master in Brazil.

Did anybody here do his master in Brazil?",1,1,1702.9689876517018,GradSchool
Need participants for my study! Please complete the survey to then end. Does culture have a role in the relationship between parenting styles and academic achievement of college students?,"We want to understand the relationship between parenting style and academic achievement and see if culture has an impact on this relationship. This study has received approval from the Research Ethics Board of the Adler School of Professional Psychology.
	We are seeking individuals who currently:
•	Speak English 
•	Are undergraduate students currently attending a post-secondary institution 
•	Have access to a computer with Internet access 
•	Are 19 years of age or older 
•	Live in Canada or the United States
•	Are willing to participate in an online survey approximately 20-25 minutes in duration. 

If you meet the above criteria and would like to participate in this study, please follow the link to the study website: http://adler.limequery.com/index.php/114181/lang-en
Please contact Azadeh Mohammadian at amohamadian@my.adler.edu for more information. 
",0,0,1702.9766959850353,GradSchool
Funny email from a suspected predatory published,,6,2,1730.1914413554057,GradSchool
Grad school admissions consultant?,"As mu name suggests, I am looking at applying to grad school sometime in early 2016.  I'm looking at top 20 B-schools, with NYU Stern being a particular favorite.

I have a very good work background and I believe I'll be able to get a 700+ on the GMAT before applications are due (I've gotten between a 660 and 710 on practice tests, and I am giving myself plenty of time to study for the actual test), however, I didn't go to a ""target"" undergrad nor did I get a stellar GPA (3.5) mostly because I was working 40-60 hours a week for my four years at school.  I suppose that forms the major component of my application (work, GMAT, undergrad) but I also recognize that I need to pay attention to the more subtle factors, too.

Has anyone here used grad school ""consulting services"" to help them on their applications, or even just to help figure out what they need to do *before* they actually embark on the grad school path?  If so, how was your experience?

Thanks! ",4,1,1754.3000524665167,GradSchool
Criminal Justice undergrad with medical masters?,"I'm currently set to graduate with a degree in CJ, but I would like to follow up with a Master's in some sort of Medical field. I thought this was possible, but when I brought it up to my CJ professor he didn't think it would be possible because it has to link somewhat. 

Any ideas?",25,0,1762.8523788554057,GradSchool
Substances and grad programs,"So I know in undergrad life it can be easy to stay on track being a weed smoker and partying (as it can be easy to not stay on track going down that path). Also I know that there is a medium size population that take adderal illicitly or nootropics to help them study. I know that partying drastically decreases in grad school because no one has time for that as focus is on your program and getting your masters of PhD. But for those who did that in their undergrad, does that lifestyle continue into your graduate program? Or for those that didn't do any of that in your undergrad, did you start doing such things? I am not condoning the use of either, to each their own, I am just curious.",6,0,1763.9485246887389,GradSchool
Grad school for Biol- 3.3 GPA but did REALLY badly 1 semester junior year. Do I still have a shot?,"Hello everyone! I'm currently a senior with a Biology major. I have a 3.3 GPA, which is not exactly impressive, but is still above a 3.0. I just started working in a lab a few months ago that one of my friends, who is in the same lab, recommended to me. I worked a part time job for a while as well as volunteered for many events here and there, so I do have things on my resume other than my grades.

I would really love to go to grad school for Biology to do research, mostly regarding genetics or brain cells. However, one semester my junior year, I got into a huge depression after a series of events that escalated over time. I'm not going to go into details, but pretty much it resulted in me having all sorts of anxiety, low self-worth, bad study habits, and having to visit my school's counseling center multiple times. While I'm finally better now, I ended up getting two D's that semester and a 2.2-2.5 GPA. Before this happened, I had a decent 3.5-3.6 GPA, but now, I find myself struggling lots just to even raise my GPA.

I know that if someone had bad grades if they showed improvement after their underclassmen years that would be good in people's books, but this kind of happened within my junior year, late into my college career when grades seriously matter, especially for graduate studies. To add to that, some of schools I am looking at want ""a minimum of 3.0 GPA in the last 2 years of study"". If you include my grades from the semesters after that, they do fit that requirement, but I am worried the admissions committee will still look at that glaring semester and immediately disregard my application because of it. 

Is there anything I can do to help me look better? I joined my lab pretty late and am not sure if I can do some research to get published, nor do I have time to do a second lab. I'm worried I just buried myself a hole I can't get out of and have nowhere to go post-bachelors now.

**tl;dr** - I goofed up once junior year when grades really matter for grad school. Do I still have a shot if I boost up other areas or should I be looking elsewhere?",7,0,1768.8512908924426,GradSchool
Any mature students here with experience of applying to grad school?,"I'm 4 months into an MA in music psychology, having graduated originally in 1999 with a BSc in Industrial Management (wasn't mature/motivated enough back then, got a 2:2). I worked in IT for 7/8 years, then launched a business in 2007 - it's a coaching business and I'm trying to build a psychology-based academic path now to underpin that. The master's is a 2-year course, from the University of Jyväskylä, Finland, I'm hoping to score much better (and so far am), and I'm looking at PhD options for afterwards. I really, really like the look of Brown Uni's [Department of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences](http://www.brown.edu/Departments/CLPS/) and  University of Illinois' psych grad programmes and am wondering if any of you PhDers have any advice on applying as a mature student, any take on Brown or U of Illinois (any of you working there) or thoughts on your PhD in this field. 

My specific interest is in positive psychology and I've a list of uni's with faculty interested in that field; Brown's the one I like best so far - and my partner's interested in a PhD in some music/technology area and Brown's programme on that front looks amazing too.

So yeah, starting research and networking but any insight from the experience of this sub gratefully received! Basically I'm wondering how much of a drawback my low BSc score will be, considering I'm looking at prestigious schools in a competitive field? Thank-you!

(Edited for clarity)",12,2,1779.5715223739242,GradSchool
Update: Late assignment,"So, I turned in my essay. Thanks for all of the advice. I think I will pass my essay--which is all I care about. We have one more assignment for the class so I'll be sure to plan ahead better next time. While it did feel like the end of world for a bit, I did get over it. I'm glad I finished it and now I can focus on what's ahead. 

Thanks again!",0,0,1793.4649135776278,GradSchool
GRE/Grad School Questions,"So I am quite nervous about how heavily weighted GRE scores are for graduate programs in physics. My latest physics GRE scores are not yet available, but I have a 750, 63rd percentile from the previous one that I have taken. I have a 153 on the verbal, and a 160 on the quantitative from the general GRE.

I have about a year of research experience running simulations in attempts to rule out certain signals as atmospheric neutrino backgrounds for the IceCube Neutrino Observatory. Currently I work on the theory and the phenomenology of high energy double parton scattering trying to make predictions relevant for the LHC. In particular, develop non-factorizable double parton distribution functions that satisfy momentum and valence quark number sum rules.

During my junior year, I took quantum 1 and 2 at the graduate level, and this semester I enrolled in graduate mechanics and quantum field theory. Next semester I am planning on taking graduate electrodynamics and quantum field theory 2. I currently have a 3.99 GPA overall, and a 4.0 in major coursework, as a physics and math double major at Penn State.

Some applications that I have started are Berkeley, Boulder, Stanford, Princeton, and Caltech, and University of Washington. Are these still feasible options for me?

I am mostly interested in elementary particle theory. If anyone has any advice for programs that I should look into, please let me know.

If you need/want additional information, let me know.",8,2,1793.8703996887389,GradSchool
"I Want to pursue a PhD in Mechanical Engineering, but I don't feel like I'm prepared. Would it be a good idea if I worked for one year at a company, do some research, or just apply to the programs anyway?","I'm currently in my final year of grad school and would like to pursue a PhD in my field, but given the current state that I'm in (personal issues, poor time management skills, etc...) I feel like if I apply now I'm setting myself up for failure. Any suggestions? I was either thinking of working in industry for a year or interning at a lab doing research. Am I just psyching myself out for no reason?",2,2,1794.1319274665168,GradSchool
Need help finding graduate programs,"Hi guys, so I'm a senior in an undergraduate program studying Recreation Management with a concentration in Recreation & Natural Resources. I'm interested in applying for graduate school for next fall, and I'm having trouble finding graduate programs. Up to this point I have done things such as talking to my professors, internet searches, and just pulling up websites of colleges and scrolling through their graduate programs. So far I've found Eastern Kentucky University, and SUNY Cortland for programs that I enjoy, although when I called Eastern Kentucky University I didn't get the best feeling from the person I talked to. I've been in touch with a graduate coordinator at SUNY Cortland, and they've been very friendly and helpful, as well as having a program that I think would work for me, but I don't want to put all my eggs in the one basket of only applying for a single program. If anyone has any advice on locating graduate programs of this nature, I would greatly appreciate it. 

On a related note, programs with assistantship's are highly preferred, because I don't quite have the financial ability to pay my way through graduate school out of pocket.

Thanks very much everybody!",5,0,1794.995527003554,GradSchool
"Three Programs, endless possibilities...","I am currently in a Double Major program in Bioethics and the History and Philosophy of Science. After grad school, I am considering many different Master's programs, mainly in Medical Anthropology (I don't have an anthro background though), Bioethics, Library Science/Museum Studies or an MPH. I am skeptical of the academic job market, so I have a list of non-academic fields I'm interested in. 

* Health Policy

* Medical Research (vague, I know)

* Medical Writing (Regulatory)

* Consulting (Medical, Ethical)

* Curating (Unsure if expertise or Museum Studies would be more useful)

* Science Journalism

Can someone suggest which program would suit me best to do the kind of work I am interested in? I appreciate enlightenment on any other jobs/industries that I didn't list, but are related. Thanks everyone.",0,3,1808.64713579985,GradSchool
Help with wording on CV,"In my 'organizations' section of my CV i am having some trouble with wording for one particular organization I was involved with during my undergraduate career. There were 4-5 students, including me, who with the help of one of our professors, started a chapter of Nu Rho Psi (neuroscience honors society) at my university. It was a long process that i assisted weekly in filling out proper paperwork, by-laws, and deciding on qualifications for joining our club. Once it finally became official, I was the VP of the club for the last year i was in school.

Basically, as i am updating my CV, i don't know what title to give myself for this organization. Obviously the vice president, but should i also include that I helped start the chapter? Would the word co-establisher suffice? i don't know if that sounds right. But i can't think of another title that sounds any better.

any help/advice would be appreciated!",2,0,1810.1632700591092,GradSchool
Then what the hell are you doing here? (rant),"Throw away because I'm sure some of my peers poke around on reddit.

I'll preface this by saying two things:
A) There is nothing wrong with going to grad school with no intention of going into academia.
B) There is nothing wrong with conservatives.

I am still finishing up classwork, going to grad school for political science. Loving the program blah blah blah but there is one other student who drives me up a fucking wall every class every week. I totally get that some people don't want to research or teach and are getting their PhD for different reasons, great more power to you. That being said, this kid has such an open and immense disdain for academics and academia that it comes off as crass. I get it, you hate academia and think we are all too busy sitting around pontificating about useless ideas, we very well may be, but to openly say how stupid and pointless something is because it doesn't have ""real world applicability"" and how what were doing is a waste of time is just juvenile. Besides that, 9/10 of us are here to go into academia, your professors are life long academics to sit there and just bash the profession is just rude. I wonder every time he starts a rant about how this or that methodology or theory is a waste of our time what the hell he is doing here? You knew what you were getting yourself into, why the hell are you wasting the departments money if you can't stand being here?

But that isn't it. Like I said this is a rant. This kid has no respect for his peers or the professors. Giving a presentation or making a point? Expect him to just start talking midway through and just talk louder than you until you stop talking. Professor making a point or discussing something? Good chance he will just start talking over them too, and just continue to raise his voice over theirs. And it isn't like he is making a meaningful contribution to the discussion. No, either it is his personal experience or opinion on the topic (no it can't be that way, because I have never seen it happen like that or experienced it that way). Even worse is when he goes to critique the readings. Like I said above there is nothing wrong with being a conservative or having a political ideology (this is political science after all, we are all probably interested in politics), but if your only critique of of a foundational text is basically that the author is a partisan hack who is no better than a cable TV pundit you really aren't adding anything to our conversation. Just because the author's conclusion doesn't line up with your professed political views doesn't make them wrong, nor does it make them right, rather we should be having a meaningful discussion of the texts not offering ad hominem attacks. Offer a critique of their theory, methods, the way they measured or interpreted something, anything, give us something to work with besides this doesn't fit my world view and therefore it is wrong. I would expect this of a freshman but of someone going for their PhD it is just freaking pathetic. The professors attempt to push him to give us a substantive comment but he just pushes his view that such and such is wrong, ignoring the broader idea or even better when he completely misses the point of the work and refuses to acknowledge that. 

I've stopped being nice in class to him, I can't do it anymore. His attitude towards the entire program and discipline is so frustrating to me, not to mention his blatant disrespect for everyone else in the room. Any advice on how do deal with this kid? I've tried shooting down his arguments but he either A) ignores your point B) Denies your claims (""No, you're wrong there totally were WMDs in Iraq"") or C) Is making a point so beyond the scope of the conversation it isn't worth dignifying with a response.",7,3,1811.8761057072575,GradSchool
"Help - pregnant & behind, just caught cold","I've got 8 weeks of pregnancy and 7 weeks of classes to go at a competitive US university, and I don't know if I'm gonna make it. 

I've been struggling with a lot of pregnancy complications (extreme fatigue, pain with walking, etc) and when I got gestational diabetes 3 weeks ago, managing that I got really behind in my classes. I changed one to auditing, and talked to the other two profs who gave me some slack. I used sick days, I quit one part time job, started burning vacation at the other, and called in friends to help around the house. Was still critically behind, but at least not sliding any further.

Today I woke up with my husbands cold.

No idea what to do now. I have have far too much work for even 1 sick day, major papers due this week & next, no remaining 'power through' oomph left (I'm at the crying in despair stage), and profs have indicated their patience is thin. I've been pushing my luck at work a lot already, and I need the job (pays tuition & health insurance). Husband & friends already doing most housework. I don't feel like I have many options, but it seems vanishingly unrealistic for me to pass my classes.

Any advice?",1,0,1815.2169274665166,GradSchool
Does experience as a lab manager look good to graduate school admissions?,"Edit: Thanks everyone, for the input. So very helpful. Thank you!!",9,1,1816.3670779294796,GradSchool
"Can anyone help me out here? Looking for relevant programs and supervisors is hard. (PhD revolivng around heritage, museums and performance)","Alright so I've started the search for PhD programs for next September. I'm interested in furthering the research I started for my MA, which revolved around the use of living history as it applies to maritime archaeological research. I'd like to go above and beyond that and study heritage performance within museum education. I don't have it narrowed down yet as I assume it'll change but I'm wondering if anyone knows where I should go with this? I've got a list of potential universities (I'm looking in the UK and Europe) but I'm not sure how to go about messaging potential advisers and finding potential advisers really. Can anyone help me out? ",0,0,1827.3467075591093,GradSchool
Please take my survey for academic research!,"Hey Reddit friends! I could really use your help right now. I'm doing some academic research on social media use and need some respondents for my questionnaire (link below). If you have some spare time, please fill this survey out. I'll give you all the virtual hugs. If you decide to complete it, please put my first and last name (Kelsie Fiege) at the end in order for me to get credit. 

Thanks so much guys!



https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/VJ599TR
",5,0,1832.197263114665,GradSchool
Music for working/reading papers?,"I find myself quickly repeating the same artists/soundtracks while reading papers. What music do you guys listen to while you work?

Here's a few of my favourites:

**Artists**

* 2Cellos
* The Section Quartet
* Yo-Yo Ma (especially Yo-Yo Ma plays Ennio Morricone)
* Vanessa Mae
* RJD2
* Ludovico Einaudi
* Chopin, Beethoven, Rachmaninov, Mozart, Strauss, Vivaldi, etc.

**Movie Soundtracks**

* Most Pixar soundtracks
* Sunshine O.S.T.
* The Fountain O.S.T.
* Moon O.S.T.
* Hero O.S.T.
* The Social Network O.S.T.
* The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo O.S.T.
* Star Wars IV, V and VI O.S.T

**Video Game Soundtracks**

* Bastion
* Braid
* Tetrisphere
* Final Fantasy IV, VI (regular and piano versions)
* Legend of Zelda (25th anniversary medley)
* Video Games Live",2,1,1843.1046820961462,GradSchool
When Scientists Give Up (On Academic Science),,0,0,1843.1259899665167,GradSchool
#number of publications needed for PhD,"If I want a scholarship/assistantship in lets say one of the top 50 universities in US/UK to take my PhD in Engineering as an international student, how much do I need to publish before applying ? and whats the middle ground between the paper quality and the journal's impact factor to the number of publication needed ?

I know there is no definite answer for all cases, but looking forward to read your thoughts and experiences , thanks.",6,0,1.955631170220397,GradSchool
Feeling Lonely - so thought about reaching out (DM me),feeling lonely these days so reaching out on the threads I use most.,11,1,0.9685941331833601,GradSchool
Two kinds of professors,,65,1703,405.0227035413545,GradSchool
You can picture their smiles! [Xpost r/wholesomememes],,51,1551,482.3053540043174,GradSchool
I DID IT!!,"20 years ago today I was a homeless, teen mom, high school drop-out, living in a cheap motel. I had 2 babies, no car, and I walked 6 miles every day to work in a plastics extrusion factory. One kid strapped to my chest, one to my back, and their lunch bags in each hand. I lived on a steady diet of little debbie 25 cent brownies and leftover infant formula. 

It's taken 20 years of fighting through the challenges of poverty, being a working mom, sexism in STEM, deficiencies in my education, crippling anxiety, and my own trauma. And I mean FIGHTING. 

But this week I finished my Master's Degree in Software Engineering!!",89,1467,139.0411178932063,GradSchool
TFW you're an expert on your thesis topic but no one else cares about the result,,13,1439,475.08144196728034,GradSchool
Every time,,47,1263,522.3684095598729,GradSchool
Looking for that holy grail of an article that you read three months ago and want to cite now but forgot to save,,29,1197,447.10822437468784,GradSchool
"When I'm reviewing a manuscript for a journal, and the introduction cites a paper of mine as ""a recent thorough and authoritative review of research on the topic""",,20,957,488.1720901154285,GradSchool
When I'm asked how to avoid burnout,,24,954,473.16844428209515,GradSchool
PhD in a nutshell [stolen from /r/funny],,9,946,602.1759442820952,GradSchool
me_irl,,31,944,566.6150993746877,GradSchool
Me in grad school,,20,943,412.34349057839154,GradSchool
First Day of School Grade 22,,34,864,384.29382622653964,GradSchool
Narrowing the scope of your thesis,,18,859,449.4725762265397,GradSchool
when professors assign their own articles as readings,,54,838,696.146395670984,GradSchool
Bad dog.,,13,836,605.9586063191322,GradSchool
Kids don't care about grad school.,"I'm defending my master's thesis today and I told my 6 year old I have a big day at work. She rolled her eyes and said, ""I have a bigger day than you at school.""

So congratulations to my kid, who is apparently defending her dissertation in kindergarten today.",79,831,550.2066618746878,GradSchool
Went for a walk to clear my mind ...,,8,801,479.4033169672803,GradSchool
I might need a break,,23,789,499.1977614117248,GradSchool
My first 1st author paper was accepted last week and today I got word that I was chosen for a talk at one of the largest international conferences in my field. I'm on cloud 9 right now.,Seriously. This past week and a half has made the previous 4 years seem so worth it. I almost can't believe it. AHHH!!!!!!!,27,781,181.14504150431742,GradSchool
Two weeks into writing my thesis,,25,773,534.1685484487618,GradSchool
"Typo on the sign to our graduate student office. I must admit, this is pretty accurate to how I feel.",,17,772,358.31520354135444,GradSchool
Research,,11,758,633.4037452080211,GradSchool
My username is no longer relevant.,"I did it guys, I'll have to delete my account and rename it ""amadoctor123"" or something. But I probably won't.

Thanks for sticking with me through this journey.",42,758,168.98197437468778,GradSchool
Thank you Lego Grad Student for the helpful Lego graph.,,41,723,706.9576803932063,GradSchool
MRW I look at my paper from 6 years ago and see that three people have cited it,,20,725,1083.572448911725,GradSchool
My advisor saw a scientist in me.,"He accepted me as his student because he believed in me as a scientist.  

My advisor died this week, unexpectedly. He was an absolutely wonderful advisor.  The entire department is shocked by this. 

Whether I finish my PhD or not, and whether I work as a TT faculty or a teller at a bank, I will never stop being a scientist. It’s the best way I can honor him. RIP. ",19,720,333.74506465246554,GradSchool
I am about to make the greatest decision ever.,"My advisor is so quick to dismiss my ideas. “That’s not relevant,” “that’s not publishable,” “don’t waste your time,” “what is the significance?” That’s just the surface.

Last semester I took two very heavy classes, and he suggested them. On top of that, I was his TA. In March, he put me on a new project and expected basically immediate deliverables. I told him my classes were taking up all my time and that in order to keep the minimum gpa requirement for the project I need to put more focus on my classes. Once the summer hit, I tried to close the gap between where I was and where the project was, but both I and the project were moving forward. It was far too overwhelming. At that point, I was just doing what they told me to do on top of what they’ve already done while I was trying to keep my head above the water.

My advisor said that because of my lack of contribution he didn’t want to completely dismiss me so he wanted to talk about options. For this project, he’d only to continue to support me if I step down as an MS student because “you’re not being a PhD student; you’re doing what you’re told; you’re being a technician. Consider this your last chance.” He was also the source of a lot of drama and miscommunication. His approach was “throw her into the pool and expect her to learn to swim.” But I was in a condition where I was already drowning as is.

I consulted the grad office. I made sure I had nothing to lose. The thing about my university is I can switch back to PhD anytime I want to. So...to be funded, I temporarily stepped down.

I recently took an interest in another direction of research. I talked to one of the professors of a class I’m taking. He apparently is currently doing research in that area. That professor is a world renowned physicist. Very famous. When I told him about my position and warned him of my lack of experience, he said he will actively work with me, not against me. When I told him about how my ideas get dismissed, he knew exactly who I was talking about and said “yeah he is very close minded.” The cherry on top is I can actively practice my Hungarian too! (My fiancé and I plan to spend part of our honeymoon in Budapest.)

Not only did he listen to my ideas, but he said “let’s turn these into publications!” and “let’s write a proposal!”

He also said he’ll help me reach my target in graduating in two years because I already wasted 2.5 years. He also said my current experience helps tremendously.

Thank you for listening to my relief. :)",40,714,21.256719745058152,GradSchool
The grad student grind,,34,712,413.8214303932063,GradSchool
I'm writing up my first ever empirical research paper. This is how I've come to feel about the whole experience.,,18,712,497.2189072450582,GradSchool
Going to grad school after 6 years in industry.,,46,691,524.2452614117248,GradSchool
Lego Grad Student is a page (FB and Instagram) that makes me laugh at every new post. There is so much comfort in the brutal truth. At least someone else has been through the same thing!,,14,690,777.532159559873,GradSchool
PhD in filrting,,55,691,1362.2320553932063,GradSchool
Academic murder,,80,688,616.5646364117248,GradSchool
I did it. I'm done.,,43,688,531.6321942820952,GradSchool
Research culture is toxic,"Being praised for working 10 hours each weekend day instead of having a life outside of research

Being berated for not doing enough and not knowing what you're doing

Being told to stick it out even though it's hell

Missing out on family events

Missing out on moments with friends

Research culture is toxic and I'm not sure how much longer I can stick it out",96,674,324.3487567820952,GradSchool
"I just defended successfully. If someone asks me to summarize my PhD experience of 6 years in 3 words, I'd say it was fun, fun, fun.","Yes, I had fun three times in last six years. 



 ^In ^seriousness, ^haven't ^processed ^it ^yet, ^feels ^surreal.",44,671,113.21806233765074,GradSchool
A friend pretty much sums it up...,,25,667,494.5397405783915,GradSchool
I would pay hard money to see a lab/science version of kitchen nightmares,"Just imagine your classic curmudgeon going into a lab and ripping apart the cleanliness/organization. Then looking at recent publications and tearing apart methods/logic. 

It would honestly be super fun and educational",69,659,215.3730854857989,GradSchool
"Good news, US grad students! House-Senate tax package to no longer include tuition as taxable income, according to two GOP senators",,75,655,671.1305391895027,GradSchool
top shelf academic meme,,16,649,461.4270553932063,GradSchool
He did earn it... (x-posted from /r/tumblr),,25,646,739.3969859487618,GradSchool
When someone asks why I put myself through the unnecessary stress of grad school and I get defensive about my life choices,,11,644,574.9041850228359,GradSchool
Very relatable comic by Sketching Science,,13,619,600.0818239117248,GradSchool
Does anyone else get so overwhelmed that they end up doing absolutely no work?,"I just started my PhD program a month ago and I find myself going through cycles of getting some things done, then spending days in my cubicle in the shared office space getting absolutely nothing done. I leave things for the last minute all the time. I go home early. I’m halfassing basic things. I can’t find it in me to care. 

This is what I want to do. I’ve worked so hard to get here. What is going on with me?

EDIT: Thanks for all the really kind comments and messages. The support has been great. But I just wanted to say that I wrote this comment while in a really bad mindset and it’s not representative of how I always feel or exist. This shit just gets hard and I’ve worked so hard to get here that I am exhausted so it fucks with my head when my background/age/race is thrown in my face to make me feel like I’m not doing enough or as much. It’s horrible. 


If I want anyone to take anything away from all of this, it’s to be kind to your cohort members because this PhD shit is hard. Also make everyone feel welcome regardless of their background, because you have no idea what they’re dealing with and kindness can do a lot to improve the culture of your program. ❤️",89,613,19.954034559872966,GradSchool
A valentine courtesy of Lego Grad Student,,7,620,608.2662452080211,GradSchool
Me trying to explain my thesis,,10,615,442.04562020802115,GradSchool
SUCCESSFULLY DEFENDED MY MS THESIS !!!!,Going back to sleep.,17,617,6.061754467280375,GradSchool
New definition of thesis defence,,26,608,753.0244743746879,GradSchool
"If you're at an American institution, and you have colleagues from the Middle East, please be kind today","All of us are in rather international departments. The executive order to stop issuing visas to Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen, and Syria means that a lot of our friends, labmates, peers, and colleagues may have to make some very difficult choices; many of them are on single-entry visas, so they may have to choose between seeing family and continuing in program, and that they may not be able to attend conferences and other professional events. Know they're going through a lot, and be kind.",76,612,993.2545206709841,GradSchool
Me interacting with my friends who aren't in graduate school:,,35,607,486.8716040043174,GradSchool
When your advisor asks if you have anything to submit to a conference,,18,607,421.1337104857989,GradSchool
Academic writing in a nutshell,,30,598,495.6004581709841,GradSchool
"Me, as a graduate student",,8,592,542.0258864117247,GradSchool
Yep,,12,595,732.8925299302434,GradSchool
Another reminder that graduate school is not worth your life.,"I think I've found evidence of someone, who was otherwise very accomplished, who took their own life due to not completing a PhD.

I've had at least two therapists have reminded me that the academic system (at least in America) is toxic and broken in many ways. Being a graduate student can make you feel small and powerless. Successful researchers can be rude, pernicious people. If you're getting suicidal urges, for goodness sakes, seek help. In America you can call 1-800-273-8255 to speak with someone, and your campus most likely offers mental services. Please, please take advantage of this.

If you do need to resign without your degree, it's ok. You ""wasted"" time and money? You're in good company. In america, student loan debt happens. It sucks, but at least it isn't personal. You don't need a piece of paper and extra letters behind your name to be a great person. You can still thrive, you can still succeed, you can still lead a happy life.

I'm not good at motivational speeches, but I hope the message is getting through without being too trite. Graduate school isn't everything, it's not worth harming yourself over.",56,589,508.27943965246556,GradSchool
I got an email today,"I have never been the smartest kid in the batch, since middle school - I was decent. I barely got into one of the better undergrad schools for chemical engineering in India. I did not like what the curriculum had to offer. In my school, we did not have the option of taking courses from other departments even if you have the acumen or are interested. I wanted to do computational bio, so I started learning stuff on my own and applied for REU fellowships and when I was in sophomore year, I bagged a prestigious fellowship from the Govt. of India. I started believing in myself more.  
After undergrad, I joined Penn State for my PhD where I was super happy to work on computational biology. Again, since I had no prior formal training in neither computational science and biology, my progress was very slow. My advisor isn't the best person to be with if you are a slow learner. I had to digest numerous humiliating one-on-one meetings for being slow. I knew I am getting there, but he would be the last person to buy that. I started putting in more hours and started talking to more students to broaden my knowledge horizon. Last year, I ended up publishing in a top journal after working out a problem for three long years. I am a sixth year PhD student now. I want to stay in academia, so I started applying for post-doctoral positions in several universities. My advisor initially had said that he would forward my applications to some of the good labs, but now insisted I submit a certain manuscript before I apply anywhere. I got some interviews after 50 applications or so.

&#x200B;

Today I received an email. It read - "" We would love to have you join us and contribute in our computational protein design efforts at the xxx lab at Harvard Medical School "". I am really happy after a long long time. I am about to defend in a month now.",39,583,16.203803078391488,GradSchool
Remember: You're comparing your insides with everyone else's outsides.,"When impostor syndrome comes calling, remember this. You're comparing your own messy thoughts and feelings and fears to everyone else's curated and sparkling external selves. Don't let this disconnect fool you--you deserve to be here, just as much as everyone else.

ETA: Turns out this is an Anne Lamott quote! Love her! Thanks, u/Imagine_a_name!",43,572,53.952761411724815,GradSchool
"Confession: I hate the people in my field, and academics in general","This may be controversial, but I need to rant. I love my field, but the people in it SUCK. I’m assuming this is probably a trend in academia. 

The higher I’ve gone in school (working on PhD now), the more pretentious and entitled everybody has become. 

Professors act like everything they say is the most important thought anybody has ever had, students talk about abstract shit as if they actually know what they’re saying. 

The thought of going to conferences just to play into the politics of academia makes me want to punch out all of my teeth. 

I LOVE what I’m studying, but goddamn dude everybody sucks",153,579,90.3195553932063,GradSchool
That feeling when you realize that academia isn't for you and an industry job after grad school doesn't sound bad after all.,,38,568,439.8436178932063,GradSchool
I passed my PhD defense!,"I posted yesterday before my defense and so many of you guys gave me tons of support that helped me calm my nerves and put me in a great mindset. You guys are the best! In the moments prior and some during, I thought about things you all said and it helped. I got through a nightmare of a PhD! THANK YOU ALL WHO SENT ME LOVE!

Original post: https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/aisov3/defending_tomorrow_need_some_love/",43,568,264.73777298579887,GradSchool
No one is coming to my graduation,"I cried about it like a child yesterday. I really didn't care for my undergrad graduation because it did not mean a lot to me. I worked so hard for this degree and I feel like no one cares. I just wanted people I loved to be proud of me. Everyone I invited pretty much bailed. I am a big girl, I got this degree for me and I'll get over it but damn it hurts.  


Edit: I just logged onto reddit to see all of your wonderful comments and I am just overwhelmed by the love and the support here. Y'all are wonderful human beings and thank you for making my week a thousand times better.",118,559,136.99373363394704,GradSchool
[MEME] Why complicate life?,,16,554,554.3702729857989,GradSchool
I can't put into words how thankful I am for my advisor.,"My mom was diagnosed with brain cancer just last week. She was given a month. I'm in my 4th year of a PhD program 800 miles away (home now). My advisor said to take off whatever time I need, no matter how many months, and he will continue to pay my stipend and tuition so I don't need to worry about it. Because of him, I'm able to take care of my mom in hospice at home, and spend her last few weeks with her. I wish I could put into words what this means to me, but the words just fall short...",18,549,80.26566650431741,GradSchool
"As a recent PhD looking for non-academic jobs, this pretty much summarizes the process so far...",,73,540,501.26894196728034,GradSchool
‘A toxic culture of overwork’: Inside the graduate student mental health crisis,,81,544,212.48059705987296,GradSchool
MFW I barely understand the work I already did but my supervisor starts telling me what to do next,,17,542,502.3040808561693,GradSchool
"Landed a prestigious award out of the blue, no idea what to do.","I'm going into the second year of my PhD, and applied for a fellowship at the urging of a couple of my committee members. Things were pretty rough over the past year, I was the only grad student under my, there was no summer funding for me which was an unpleasant surprise, I have a huge case of imposter syndrome (went from bachelors straight into PhD), I even doubted choosing my program, etc.

I submitted the proposal thinking that at best this was good practice for the NSF GFRP application, and it would make writing future grants easier.

I just found out this morning that **I won the fellowship, and I am set for the rest of my PhD.** Tuition, a 110% stipend pay raise, travel money, summer funding, government partnership, everything. I can't go into more detail because the official announcement hasn't been made.

I'm still in shock. I can't believe it still. I'm not sure what to do with this kind of validation honestly, as I've felt like I've just been fumbling around for 12 months.

I wanted to share because I never felt like I deserved this kind of award, but for others who feel useless or lost, or that it's not worth applying for whatever you don't think you're worthy of, *""'You miss 100 percent of the shots you don't take'- Wayne Gretzky""-Michael Scott**",76,539,53.169960485798896,GradSchool
First Day of School Grade 21,,36,533,750.3097290043174,GradSchool
Combatting over-work culture,"I saw post that lamented the culture in academia that glorifies over work, “oh I’ve spent 80 hours this week,”  “I’m so tired,” etc. 

My PIs have a great solution for this. Our lab group is incredibly open, candid, and cordial. We can use casual language (think 3 drinks in at the bar with your friend language), and don’t feel restricted. But my Pis have a rule: you are not allowed to complain/talk about how are/long you’ve been working. In our lab group agreement we must sign, and I’ll paraphrase, it reads:

“no humble bragging about how many hours you’ve worked. We all work hard, and if it takes you 70 hours to do something, while your lab mate can get it done in 40, that is not an indication that you are a harder worker. They may be more efficient, or maybe you aren’t using your time well. Those types of “complaint-brags “ create a toxic culture of comparison and doubt. We strive for a work life balance. If you are working more than 40 hour weeks consistently, talk to us.” 

It’s amazing. We all get along, and in my group there is very little inter group drama.",38,536,38.412460485798896,GradSchool
21st Century Cheating,"I'm a pretty verbose guy. I talk too much, my jokes are too long, and my biggest problem with assignments wasn't meeting the minimum word counts, but not going over the maximum.

In my program, every writing assignment had to be submitted electronically so that it could be scanned for plagiarism. The online submission portal also calculated the word count and page length, and reported those details to the professor.

One evening while discussing this system with one of my professors, he commented that it still didn't stop students from attempting to cheat. I asked how that was possible, and he told me a few examples that I found hilarious and, at least in some cases, pretty ingenious. Here are a few of the things he has seen:

* One student went though his/her entire paper and increased the font size for every single punctuation mark. All the words were in the required 12 point Times Roman, but the periods, commas, and apostrophes had been increased in order to fill more space.
* By default, most plagiarism checkers don't check quoted passages, because... well, they're quotes. My professor caught a group of students surrounding their entire papers in quotation marks, so that the online scanner skipped the entire report. In a +1 moment, the color of the quotation marks had been changed to white, so that they weren't obvious.
* Multiple students have been caught padding the length of their reports by adding words to the end, again changing the font color to white, and then changing the size to 1pt. 
* My personal favorite was a paper that was too long (a student after my own heart!) so the student decreased his/her word count by taking screen shots of entire paragraphs, deleting the words, and replacing them with the pictures. This fooled the automatic word count, but not the page length detection. So close!",90,532,95.36462483765075,GradSchool
Successfully defended today!,"Holy crap I have a PhD. How did that happen?!

&#x200B;

I don't know how to feel right now. It doesn't feel over :P",30,525,229.09465955987298,GradSchool
"""How's your research going?""",,24,529,421.87434705987295,GradSchool
Everytime I'm trying creating a PowerPoint presentation for lab meeting,,13,533,457.91917344876185,GradSchool
When your grad school is so bad at paying students on time that they recommend you take out a loan.,,121,527,374.89322437468775,GradSchool
"Today was my last day, I have successfully dropped out of grad school","Its been a long time coming but I'm finally free. Got through my masters (in physics) last semester and realized that I no longer cared enough about research to continue on with a PhD that wouldnt serve my career goals. Additionally,  grad school was taking a heavy toll on my mental health and it was better for me to walk away. 

So instead of continuing on hating everything I had a discussion with my advisor that I was going to work for one more semester to wrap up my current work and find a job. Luckily I was able to find a job as an engineer and will be starting that job in January! So for the next month I will be working on moving, and exploring my new home, and just generally enjoying life.

Remember, you are never trapped in grad school, you can always walk away. Every single interview proved to me that you dont need a PhD to succeed and can have a fulfilling successful life without one. So if you dont absolutely feel you need a PhD, I strongly recommend taking a hard look at why youre in graduate school.

Good luck to all of you, and happy holidays",56,531,300.9811641895026,GradSchool
That sweet relief,,7,521,1303.3136178932064,GradSchool
"In my (intended to be) final year of PhD. Discovered a preprint today that is EXACTLY the dissertation study I've been planning and was about to run. Plz send hugs, support, and cat gifs.",,55,520,322.981858633947,GradSchool
For the Grad Students,,13,518,539.0532012265396,GradSchool
When your adviser asks how your research is going,,12,519,872.1224604857988,GradSchool
Passed my PhD defense today,"gonna make all my friends call me doctor for like 6 months lol

Edit: thanks everyone for the kind words!",32,516,68.82248363394704,GradSchool
I just received news that my adviser died,"Guys,

I am so devastated.  I've been lurking in this sub since I was informed that I got into graduate school to get my doctorate in chemistry.  I've seen a few posts with the same content but I always thought it would NEVER happen to me.  I joined my lab group exactly one year ago and it is a small group - only three of us.  My adviser was a great person, and wanted nothing more than to see us succeed.  He literally done everything he could to get us where we needed to be both research wise and personal-growth/development wise (if that makes sense).  He always encouraged us to do our best and was kind of like...a second dad?  I don't know.

I do not want to go into details how this played out publicly.  I'm just so upset, this isn't fair.  The department head wants to meet with me tomorrow but I don't know if I can ever walk back into that building knowing that my PI, someone I looked up to and always put us (his lab group) first, won't be there.  

I just REALLY needed to get this out there.  I'm so so shocked, and so unbelievably sad.  ",29,515,313.9918817820952,GradSchool
Friendly reminder to back up your data,"External hard drive, Cloud, etc. Just do it.",46,511,337.0931665043174,GradSchool
Happy season of explaining your research a million times to relatives who aren't really listening!,"Been home for one day. Just me and my two parents. Already explained my latest paper (twice), why I haven't graduated yet (twice), why my friend is graduating before me, what ""real jobs"" all of my Uni friends who didn't go on to PhDs have and how much they earn, why I don't have a job lined up for after yet (four times)...",70,514,663.0780160413544,GradSchool
It wasn't worth it.,"I finished. 6 months ago actually. Thought about writing this many times since, but was never up to it until now.

I have my PhD. Yay. I'm the most useless kind of doctor I can be. I barely remember the last year, my brain just shut down somehow. I just went somewhere else. By the time I got out I could barely eat due to ulcers, hadn't slept properly in months, couldn't hold a pencil to write my hands trembled so badly. 

My PI was absent my last year and a half. Almost completely. I think I met with him twice in that time. Absolutely unreachable. Despite multiple cries for help, the department was completely useless. I finally got the head to begrudgingly agree to sign my forms since I literally couldn't get in contact with my PI. The last 3 months whether or not I was actually graduating in August changed from day to day. 

My PI never read my thesis. He showed up the day I defended, though. He stood up there and glibly lied his ass off. How wonderful I was to work with, how brilliant, how promising. The man who emotionally abused and abandoned his lab, who alternated between ignoring me and screaming at me for 5 years. 

He hasn't responded to a single email of mine since that day. Silence when I asked for a letter of recommendation. Silence when I asked for feedback on my papers that will never be published. We have not spoken, and at this point I have no intention of ever reaching out again.

I moved home. My parents didn't want me living on my own, being the wreck that I was. I couldn't find a job, of course -- there aren't jobs in my field here, and it wasn't like I had a single thing going for me on my resume. I did eventually find something to do, a basic programming job I could have gotten straight out of undergrad. 

I'm almost 28. I have an Ivy League PhD. And I live at home with my parents because my doctors don't think it's a good idea for me to live independently anymore. I take a handful of pills every morning just to be the barely competent human being that I am, just so I can go work my shitty job and live my shitty pathetic life that I worked so fucking hard for.

It kind of feels like the last decade didn't even happen. I like to imagine that it didn't. 

I just wanted to write this, because I very nearly quit grad school during my 2nd year, my 3rd year, multiple times during my 5th year. And everybody encouraged me, tried to cheer me up, insisted, ""It'll be worth it!"" ""Don't let them win! You can beat this thing!""

I did beat it. And it broke me.

I didn't need encouragement. I needed permission to quit. I needed somebody to tell me it was okay, that it wouldn't make me a failure, that I wasn't throwing anything away. 

So if you're looking for a sign that it's okay to quit: here it is. It's not always worth it. It certainly wasn't worth my health. And it isn't worth yours either. ",85,516,554.9449141895026,GradSchool
Well. ‘crying for your mommy’ is pretty damn legit.,,26,508,503.31857159691,GradSchool
Saw this funny license plate... grad school is hard,,16,516,415.17625678209515,GradSchool
I feel a deep connection to this photo.,,7,511,463.097310022836,GradSchool
I’m PhDone!,It’s equal parts anticlimactic and a million pounds lifted off of me. You guys can do this!,22,510,109.0712104857989,GradSchool
"Trying to decide if you should take that year off before grad school or not? Well to put it simply I have yet to meet anyone who regretted taking a year off prior to starting grad school, but I have meet a lot of people that regret NOT taking a year off.","I took a year off and highly recommend it, it helped me relax, enjoy life SAVE SOME MONEY, and most importantly it made me have no doubts that I wanted/needed to go to gradschool. going into the work force made me very aware that i loved research and learning as well as saving a couple of 1000 dollars that i have found very useful. this year off gave me perspective on why I am in the field I am in, and every time I start to feel stressed and jealous of my friends with normal jobs, I can remember how empty i felt away from doing research, it helps me stay motivated and prevent burn out.  

Anywho, thats my two cents, if you are even considering taking a year off i would recommend it, it helps focus you and makes you realize if yopu actually want or need an advanced degree.",147,510,138.29130307839148,GradSchool
BREAKING: Harvard Teaching and Research Assistants Vote to Unionize,,63,498,543.0886757635767,GradSchool
How I felt tonight walking in to do my final presentation.,,4,504,536.9215692820951,GradSchool
What scientists actually say when running experiments,,18,495,611.3144049302433,GradSchool
I was given a large code snippet to debug. I spent a week debugging it and found nothing wrong with it after breaking it line by line. I was told I was given the wrong code snippet last night.,Please kill me.,33,499,188.45735631913223,GradSchool
When I bump people's grade with a random point somewhere such that they pass instead of fail,,30,502,585.3186757635766,GradSchool
"[UPDATE] My thesis is due in two months. If I do not submit in this timeframe, my candidature is cancelled and I will be unable to ever get my PhD. I have spent 6 years doing what should have been a 3 year course. I am nowhere near finished writing. I am going to fail.","[This is an update to a post I made two months ago.](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/b9ep8b/my_thesis_is_due_in_two_months_if_i_do_not_submit/)

Well, it's now due next week and I'm pretty much done. It's been a rushed job, I still have the last of my conclusion to write, some editing to do, and all my formatting needs to be done, but it doesn't matter because for the first time in years I truly believe I will have something to submit on the day of my deadline. I honestly can't believe it. I have no idea how I pulled myself together and pulled this off but I managed. My primary supervisor has not read it nor will he, but I have had feedback from my secondary supervisors telling me that ""it's ok"" which is more than I ever could have dreamed two months ago. 

The moral of this story I guess is it really doesn't need to be perfect. I was paralysed by everyone else being worried for me, telling me what I should be up to, telling me that they ""didn't know if they were going to finish either"" even though their thesis was by publication and they had 6 months to go. Their perfection made me believe I had to be that perfect to get it done. And it isn't perfect. But it is done. I can only hope I won't get major revisions but if I do, I'll worry about it when the time comes.

Thanks everyone who commented on my original post. I wrote that in a bathroom of an all-night cafe at 4am after staying up two nights prior. I was just crying reading all your responses because they were all so nice and supportive. I have gone back and read them more than once to motivate myself and remind me that panicking and quitting just because something won't be up to standard isn't the way to see something through.

Thank you all so much <3 

Wish me luck for the coming week!",27,501,139.8767544672804,GradSchool
How to Finish [cartoon],,12,498,435.33556233765074,GradSchool
"""What are your plans after grad school?""",,29,497,700.4229350228359,GradSchool
I have discovered 6 new species in the past 3 years,"Ever since I was a kid, I've wanted to name a new species of something. Anything, really... I just thought it was so cool to be the first person to name an organism. Three years into my grad program, and I have discovered six living things never before seen by human eyes. I've named two of them and have the others waiting on me.  

Discovering species isn't part of my thesis at all. I do this in my own time. One of the best parts of being in grad school is having 24/7 access to a world-class lab, but these aren't obscure microbes that require multimillion-dollar culture vessels to observe. I'm literally finding these things in puddles, on the side of the road, at the beach. The vast majority of the time, I can key out my critters and bugs with a few days' work in the library or a quick genetic barcode. But those times when I can't... those are the moments that make all this worthwhile. 

I went to grad school because I like new things. The irony is that new things are everywhere. You're probably stepping over new things on your way to the toilet every morning. The joy of being a lifelong student is looking where others never thought to look, and seeing what others never dreamed to see. ",49,493,295.9379697450581,GradSchool
"""What's your major?""","Thank you for expressing interest in what I do, random family member I forgot existed until I came home for the holidays, but I am a PhD student, and your question spontaneously splits my soul into another Horcrux.",261,492,308.2606665043174,GradSchool
Just submitted my thesis; I am finally a free woman!,"After a long struggle to get my degree done and an incredibly stressful defence, today I submitted my MA thesis to the appropriate folks. I am officially done. Currently drinking champagne, eating a kabob and searching for a fancy restaurant for dinner.   


Cheers!",42,492,322.32190493024336,GradSchool
"Last year, after 3 years of my PhD, I had no results (or anything written). This week, I handed in my thesis.","I'm writing this because my PhD really damaged my self-esteem, so I want to practice being proud of myself. So yeah, I'm proud of saving my PhD pretty much all by myself, with some help from my colleagues. I had no idea it was even possible to go from 0 - 100% in the space of a year.

I also wanted to write this to give hope to other students who are deep into their PhD and feel behind, especially those who have been left behind by their supervisors (like I was). So I'm happy to chat or offer advice related to those problems here/in PMs -- too many of us suffer in silence and it's super important to talk about these problems earlier rather than later.",47,493,1.3779581709840785,GradSchool
"In an attempt to dissuade graduate students from voting ""Yes"" in the upcoming vote for unionization, University of Pittsburgh has released an anti-union ""FAQ"" that is not just incredibly biased, but is also subtly threatening",,152,492,208.733108633947,GradSchool
"I just successfully defended my dissertation! I should feel happy, right? I actually just came home and took a very long nap!",,37,486,244.06206696728037,GradSchool
I made a bot that writes a research abstract with you (trained on 200k papers),"I've been a little obsessed with training machine learning on datasets and made a bot that tries to write research abstracts with you (amongst ... other things). 

I'll be the first to admit, the science terms it generates isn't always real (but sometimes is, it really likes to use Gauss-Newton) and it can make up fake sounding algorithms, but I hope you can get to use it as a way to brainstorm. Okay, it's probably more for laughs than of practical. 

[Research Abstract Generation Bot](https://writeup.ai/research)",55,487,22.482634096910004,GradSchool
How it feels after getting a PhD,,42,483,236.02831696728038,GradSchool
"Successfully defended my dissertation this week, accepted with no revisions!","After six long years, I finally defended my PhD dissertation this week. My committee is very tough, and I have an extra committee member, so the between the stress of scheduling and anticipating some pretty difficult questions, there was a lot of pressure on the ""big"" day. A week ago, if you had asked me how I'd feel on my defense date, I would have told you I'd be a nervous wreck. Everyone kept asking me if I was nervous, told me that I must be freaking out, etc. Lots of other people told me I'd be ultimately disappointed when it's all over. After lurking in this subreddit for many years, I had seen the full spectrum of defense day rundowns, and was prepared to feel sad, disappointed, extreme anxiety, make mistakes in my presentation, etc. I am a very high anxiety person so I was dreading how I'd feel the week of my defense.

&#x200B;

The day before, I had a TON of anxiety trying to prepare everything, tweaking analyses, making sure I had tons of supplemental slides ready to field any tough questions. But the day of, I woke up with so much joy and excitement, and just a light, focusing, touch of nerves. Overall, it was one of the most fun days of my entire life. When I got up on stage, I looked out on a full house of all of my favorite people, and realized each person was there to support me. No seminar is perfect but I think I got close. Here's what I think I did right:  


1. Splurged on the right outfit. My whole outfit was brand new (though affordable). I know the default is to wear a suit, but I just don't feel like myself in pants, and while I have a skirt suit I love, it just didn't feel right. So I rocked a conservative dress I felt ""boss"" in and it was definitely the right choice for me. I would recommend a dark color, since I didn't have to be stressed about sweat stains from the stage lights. If you get a light color, bring a backup in case you spill something. I also brought a backup for panty hose in case I got a run. I felt confident and sexy the whole day.
2. Scheduled my defense for the afternoon. I know scheduling is tough, but I didn't want the stress of trying to get on campus at 10 AM feeling ready to go. It was much easier for full time working friends and lab friends to take the afternoon off to make it to my defense, and I had a really luxurious morning of pampering and a nice, relaxed lunch before it was ""go time"". Plus, champagne and cake seemed more appropriate at 4 pm versus noon.
3. I invited a TON of people, most individually. For faculty, I wrote a nice email thanking them for their contribution to my dissertation successes and asking them to join for the seminar and celebration afterwards. For friends and neighboring lab members, I made sure to invite everyone in person. This removed any anxiety I had over having a mostly-empty auditorium, and the audience was stacked with kind and encouraging people.
4. I took the time to 100% fully enjoy the seminar. This was the first time I was able to give a 1 hr seminar, after a lot of stressful 15 or 20 minute short talks. After getting through the first couple slides, I started to realize I wasn't nervous anymore, I was having a TON OF FUN! After that, the seminar ended up being my best one ever. It went a little longer than I was aiming for (just over an hour, I was hoping to end at 45 minutes to leave time for more questions) but the slower pacing made it so much easier to say what I wanted to say.
5. I brought a pen for each of my committee members, and brough the associated forms in a plastic container where they were safe from damage. The minutes before and after my defense were crazy, it would be so easy for something bad to happen to the forms, and a couple of my committee members didn't have a black pen. 
6. I defended at the RIGHT time for me. 6 years is a long time, though around average for my program. For the last couple years, I felt increasingly ashamed that it was taking me so long to finish my papers and to put together my dissertation and defend. But if I had defended last year, while I may have passed, I wouldn't have felt proud of the final product like I do now. In the last year I have really increased my confidence, honed some skills, and brought the story together into a body of work I stand behind. I think this is the main reason everything went so well, because I felt 100% confident that my dissertation was strong and was a significant contribution to the community. This left a lot less room for failure. I am also still very excited about the work, and maybe if I defended a year from now, I would have had less enthusiasm.
7. Planning a lot of festivities around my defense really made it feel special. We splurged for some nice meals at restaurants I wouldn't normally splurge for, had an awesome party after the defense that lasted for hours (thanks to my PI and labmates), and I am planning another larger party for this weekend. Originally I felt guilty spending money on a party or on dinners when I am about to be temporarily unemployed, but it has definitely been worth it so far. It created an atmosphere of excitement, and it feels great to treat the people who have done so much for me over the years, even if it's just treating them to a lunch out or some beer and champagne on me.

&#x200B;

Again, everyone told me to expect to feel disappointed after the party was over. If anything, I feel even better now! Each day since my defense I wake up feeling happy and confident in myself. I had so much self doubt over so many years, about my work and my capabilities. But I really feel like I knocked this one out of the park, after so many setbacks and so much struggle. I know this post makes it seem like my graduate path has been easy, but it was not. There were so many late nights and long hours. So many failed experiments. So much learning and failing at new things. It has been a team effort the whole time and I am honored and unbelievably grateful to have been given so many opportunities to learn, fail, and ultimately succeed. Each day this week I have come into lab an hour later than normal, chosing to spend each morning instead on thanking those who helped me, making gifts for those who supported me, and being grateful for everything I've been given. This has magnified my joy 100 fold.  


Thank you r/GradSchool. There have been many nights, scrolling through here at 3 am, too anxious to sleep, wondering if I could do this or not.  But somehow I did it!",13,477,207.26795817098406,GradSchool
Done,,27,483,672.1914072450581,GradSchool
Here's a list of stuff that's worked for me in grad school. What's kept you sane?,"I was making a guide for a friend starting grad school, and I thought some of my advice might be useful. I'm going into my fourth year, so I was thinking it might help some people going into their first years now. I'm sure more of it is specific to me and my field than I realize (I lean qual and I don't have a lab). However, I'd love for people to add on and help each other out. A lot of times, grad school is one of those experiences without a handbook, so maybe this will improve someone's well being while here.

General Philosophy:

1. **Trust your capabilities, not your knowledge.** You are a capable person who will get through grad school and do what you need to do. You do not, however, know everything. There is an overwhelming amount of things you will never know. Don’t fret about it. Especially in the beginning of grad school, it is far better to admit what you don’t know than pretend to know it. It’s okay to be wrong, too. Expertise will come naturally. You will suddenly have a huge amount of knowledge on an esoteric topic because you’ve worked to do so. You’ve got this, and will continue to have it. I think this mindset is one of the reasons I’ve avoided the dreaded imposter syndrome (it also really helps that I have good advisors, I don’t care what people think about me, and I’ve faced all lot of adversity). Just because you don’t know how to do something or don’t know something yet doesn’t mean you can’t handle it.
2. **Do not compete.** Everyone comes to grad school with vastly different academic backgrounds, levels of maturity, levels of financial support, and skills. Each person will specialize enough (hopefully?) that you do not have to compete with people in your program. Be genuinely happy for their successes. Share tips on how you got yours. You are not in grad school to win it. (Full disclosure: everyone in my department is fully funded. This may not be the case in places where people compete for funding).
3. **A healthy amount of caring is good.** Your mental health is more important than a course assignment. Your article will never be perfect. Not everyone will like you. If you don’t have a good amount of distance from grad school, you won’t be able to grow. You should work hard and believe in your work, but not be so attached you can’t take criticism, for example. I feel like I don’t care about 15% and this works for me.
4. **Be deliberate.** Each choice in grad school is a strategic one to get a career later. In my case, I go to a ton of professionalization seminars, try to hit two conferences a year, and got a certificate in a related field to try to be open to jobs. Your choices should help you further your career because grad school is a job. It’s okay to mess up, but this mentality will help you later.
5. **Be nice.** Be nice to everyone. You never know who talks to whom. Office staff usually have a lot of intel about grad students. A faculty member you don’t work with might put in a good word. It’s very possible there will be a couple of individuals you don’t like and cannot interact well with (I have two). My advice is to avoid them, and engage politely when need be. When I came to grad school, I had no money and couldn’t afford new clothes until about 6 months in. There were a few people who made rude comments about it. It was entirely unnecessary, and brought me way more stress than I needed. Don’t be that guy.
6. **Create boundaries.** Some people are very strict with this, like only working 9-5 or not checking emails on the weekend. I do this more on the fly by prioritizing stuff I need to do outside of work. This is much easier to do once you’re no longer taking courses, and depends on your boss.
7. **Remember why you’re here.** I think everyone has at least one moment where they wonder if should drop out. My most significant one was my first year. I have dyslexia, and when I had a typo on a draft, a senior faculty told me to drop out because I would never learn how to spell. My mentors talked me out of it. I am here because I like the aspects of what I want to do and think my work is important. 
8. **It’s okay if stuff changes.** It’s totally fine if your interests change. You may not do a dissertation on what you came in to do. It’s okay if your priorities shift. I actually gained a fair amount of weight my first two years of grad school because I was food secure and I sat a lot. I wasn’t worried; a lot of the conditions of graduate school are not permanent.
9. **Be able to explain what you do and why it’s important.** Elevator pitches are really emphasized in my department. One instance on the way back from a conference a border patrol official asked me what I studied, and I was able to answer in one sentence. People want to be interested in your work without hearing everything you’ve ever done. You’ll also be married to a topic for a while at a certain point, so make sure you like it, and make sure you know why other people should care.
10. **If you feel like complaining, channel it.** I don’t like a bunch of the policies at my institution. I also don’t think grad students are treated particularly well. I joined the grad student government and helped advocate directly to officials so I would feel so powerless. That might be an approach that’s specific to me, though. Activism, mentorship, and other avenues might be more appropriate.

Mentorship:

1. **Always ask.** Always ask about opportunities. This can be anything from fellowships to working with faculty to co-authorship to reading a draft. The worst someone can do is say no. This is not a good job for someone who cannot handle rejection.
2. **Have more than one mentor.** Your advisor should be the captain of the ship, but it’s good to have other people to lean on and learn from. You will have to build a committee after all. Plus, advisors are not infallible.
3. **Find mentors that care about you as a person.** This is a best case scenario. You want a mentor that will go to bat for you. You want one who looks out for you and asks how you're doing. My mentors have invited me to holidays and got my mom a doctor. I always came from a low income background, so having mentors help me navigate that was crucial.
4. **Find more advanced students.** Some of them will have very good, specific advice. A lot of them want to pass on their wisdom. Take this with a grain of salt, however. For example, I had a scandal in my department, so everyone who started the program before it had a very different experience than I did.

Time management:

1. **The matrix.** I got this from my advisor, who is good at time management. Sort your tasks into four quadrants like so:

Important and Urgent | Important But Not Urgent
---|---
Urgent But Not Important| Neither Important Nor Urgent

Do box 1 first, and do box 4 last. 2 and 3 are more judgment calls. This stops me from checking my email 400 times instead of actually making a deadline.

2. (not sure why this is showing up as 1, it should be 2). **Use a to-do list.** I use an app called Habitica because I like that it gives me daily and long term goals (also I earn cute digital animals, which is an incentive for me). Some people write them. Mapping out what you actually need to do ensures you know it, even if you don’t want to do it.
3. **Allow yourself to do other things.** Studies show that people who intend to work for hours uninterrupted do not do as well as those who schedule breaks. Have lunch with other grad students. Go to that job talk. The ability to show up is provided you can spare the time, but generally you have more time than you think you do, unless you’re hitting a deadline.

Reading:

1. **Reading is easier than not.** It is easier to have read and know things in a course, for example, than to pretend you know things. If you’re meeting an academic, it’s easier to have read some of their articles than to vaguely know what they’ve done. Reading is a part of your job at this point. That being said...
2. **Don’t read everything closely.** Not everything will be of use to you. Focus on works in your subjects. If you need to skim, read the introductions and conclusions. Read the first and last sentences. Read enough to comprehend.
3. **Sometimes you only have time for an abstract.** As I’ve mentioned before, sometimes there’s just too much knowledge to know. Sometimes you don’t have access to the full article. Sometimes you don’t need to know the methods, just the conclusions.
4. **Pomodoro.** I use the Pomodoro method, which is 25 minutes on and 5 minutes off. This helps me quantify work I’ve done and makes me feel more accomplished. It also ensures I don’t rush the end of pieces. I was messing up my back from sitting for long periods of time, so this forces me to get up periodically.

Writing:

1. **Actually write everything down.** Do you know how many times I’ve had a good idea while I’m in the shower and I think I’ll remember it and then I really don’t? It’s an embarrassing amount of times. You won’t always remember. I remedy this by having a word vomit document for each project.
2. **Write 30 minutes a day.** Some days you won’t make it, and that’s okay. However, most days you can fit that much, and you’ll feel better about days you can fit more.
3. **Track your writing.** It will show you how much your actually working and what work you’ve done that day. It was cool to know my master thesis took 65 hours of dedicated writing (not including data collection and analysis).
4. **Start writing term papers over breaks.** This one is a no-brainer. Breaks are not for relaxing in grad school, or at least not fully. Getting ahead is easier than trying to crank out 15-25 pages (about the normal length in my field) for three classes while grading finals.
5. **Use resources.** There’s no shame in wanting to improve your writing; in fact, it’s part of your job. Looking for help is not a problem. Start a writing group with some friends. Go to the writing center. Read books on style. Get a software like Grammarly. Don’t be embarrassed for trying to grow.

Edit: I'm so glad this blew up! So much good advice in the comments. I feel like helping each other is really what this community's about.
",64,477,463.7420553932063,GradSchool
Successfully defended my PhD thesis today!,"After the presentation and questions, I was asked to step out: a couple of minutes later, my advisor comes out and says, ""Congratulations, Dr. XXX"".

&#x200B;

Although I knew this moment would eventually come, it was still an incredible feeling. All those sleepless nights, countless hours of frustration and anxiety..: it was worth all of it.

&#x200B;

""What do now?""",39,474,224.9367313191322,GradSchool
Your weekly reminder...,"...that what we are doing is *really hard*. Grad school is really really hard. 

When you look at the others around you and feel like you are so much less, remember that you’re running in a really elite circle of very driven people. When you are tempted to compare, remember that just by being there you have accomplished so much. Chances are, they feel the same way. And remember that you belong, because you’ve worked hard and are learning alongside all these peers you are comparing yourself to.

Special shout out to the grad students working a job or two on the side, and grad student parents. I see you.",31,470,200.0207938191322,GradSchool
"US graduate entry exams not a predictor of PhD success, says study",,102,471,260.32322437468775,GradSchool
Yesterday was a great day. I FINALLY got meaningful results after a year of nothing. My advisor's response:,,58,473,803.2432822450581,GradSchool
My work made it into Nature!,"...as a reference in someone else's paper.

What do you think this is, a fairy tale?",18,473,1209.4090114117248,GradSchool
PhD years in a nutshell (x-posted from /r/webdev),,12,469,846.4885715969099,GradSchool
The tax attack on grad students was removed! Thank you to all the grad students who used activism to push back! We did it!,,14,465,669.3860137265397,GradSchool
Yesterday I passed my PhD dissertation defense.,"I thought I would be super happy, but I actually felt a bit sad. 

Sad to leave this small city, and my advisors. ",24,460,228.21492576357667,GradSchool
Today my mentor told me he was impressed with my performance so then I thanked him and went to sob in the bathroom stall on a different floor,It was chill though. I needed that more than I thought I did.,35,463,74.11453224505816,GradSchool
Going through grad school sober,"I’ve been sober for about 8 years now. I finished my masters in December and am about to start my PhD. I’ve always been very open about my recovery. My PI, most of my cohort and most of the faculty know that I’m in recovery. Anyone who’s close to me knows that I’m sober.

I went to interview for a PhD position and there was a brewery tour as part of the (essentially mandatory) schedule. It hit me that academics freaking love alcohol. Conferences all have happy hours and social stuff centered around alcohol. It’s become somewhat standard that people in academia are obsessed with micro brews. 

So I thought I’d make a post for people newly sober and in grad school or just trying to navigate academia without drinking for whatever reason. 

1. Don’t be ashamed/embarrassed. Not drinking is not a bad thing. My experience is that academics are mostly forward thinking and do not care if you don’t drink. Get soda/water/whatever and just act like it’s totally normal—because it is! Most of the time, the only person thinking about the fact that you’re not drinking alcohol is you. 

2. If you’re comfortable, tell people. I’ve found that when I tell people I don’t drink, that’s the end of the conversation. They usually don’t ask any more questions. More often than not if there is a comment about your not drinking, it’s a positive one. 

3. Don’t feel like you’ll miss out on networking if you leave an event early because people are getting hammered. The important networking happens before everyone gets too drunk anyways.

4. Hopefully you have a good enough relationship with your PI where you can be honest. Because I’ve been upfront about everything, my PI understands and doesn’t mind if I leave once a week for a long lunch to meet my sponsor.

5. If you’re a member of a 12 step program or any group that helps keep you sober, don’t push that to the side for school. Maintain the course of action to stay sober and you will see the benefits in your work. I’ve had periods of time when I stopped going to meetings etc because I was “too busy” and my productivity actually increased when I got back into the swing of it. If you’re like me, you won’t make it in school if you go back to drinking, so make sure your sobriety stays important to you. 

6. Finally, there is no one size fits all. Everyone’s recovery is a little different and everyone’s experience with grad school is a little different. Do what makes you comfortable. 

Also, my friends in my cohort love having someone who can be the designated driver :)",55,465,196.9090692820952,GradSchool
"Grad students’ flash drive containing their thesis was just found by mechanic 3 days after grad student picked up their car. After mechanic ends call in which they told grad student the news, the mechanic turns to me wide-eyed and says, “You’d think we just found their missing newborn.”",,67,461,683.2578887265396,GradSchool
I got married on Saturday and my Masters Thesis was officially 100% approved this morning.,"I'm going to have a Masters!!!! 

The diploma will be enroute when I come back from my honeymoon. I am currently feeling a millions things right now but I guess the big question is now what?

This week is the best week of my life. ",13,460,519.3432822450582,GradSchool
Addiction updoots only,,13,457,576.9676919672804,GradSchool
My wife and I just walked for our PhDs. My thoughts on starting a family during graduate school.,"Hey guys, like the title states, my wife and I both defended last June (Molecular Microbiology), and walked on Saturday. We met a half a year before our programs began, and we married and had a kid 2 years in.

Starting a family in grad school is definitely doable, depending on your lab situation. We had zero proximal family support, so we had our son in daycare during the weekdays, and we took turns watching the little guy on the weekends and weeknights when one or the other of us had to put in a lot of work. Not trying to violate rule 9 here, but we collectively published 12 times (4 first author, 5 co-author, three reviews) as PhD students, so I would dare to say that we didn't half-ass it because of the kid.

Various (usually older) faculty told us that we were making a mistake when my wife got pregnant (on purpose), and our school offered zero support for graduate student mothers apart from the mandatory, unpaid FMLA weeks (my wife took 6 weeks plus her two weeks of vacation). Luckily, our mentor was extremely supportive and absolutely thrilled to have a lab baby (she even babysat for us a couple of times).

So, if you are considering getting married and/or having a kid in grad school, never let anybody tell you that you ***have*** to put your life on hold, especially if raising a family is a high priority for you; those mid 30s come up real fast. Talk to your mentor, look at what resources your school/state/country offers, get advice from others who have gone through the same thing, and do your research about the child care options in your area. Most importantly, find a work/life balance that works for both of you, and be sure to create some quality family time (weekend ""daycations"" and babysitter-allowed date-nights kept us sane).",47,452,155.19523826357667,GradSchool
My response to Reviewer #2,,11,451,551.4614766895025,GradSchool
"Holy crap, I'm a doctor!","Of philosophy, of course. It's so unreal. I was so nervous before the defense that I couldn't eat or sleep properly for days. I couldn't even bring myself to practice the talk but when I got up there it just flew by and the audience enjoyed it and gave me a long applause.

I was feeling pretty good, but then the closed door was brutal. Effectively, the thesis needs some work, where is the spectra, etc. I felt kinda defeated when they sent me out. Then they came out laughing and each congratulated me. I still can't believe I did it!",35,446,104.15912715246557,GradSchool
"Oh, I'm sure grad school will be great! I'm smart. I can do it, no problem!",,25,443,579.9826688191322,GradSchool
I PASSED MY PHD DEFENSE!!!,,38,449,879.1656317820951,GradSchool
Am doctor.,"Successfully defended yesterday!!!

Everything went very well. Presentation went smooth and the defense was very constructive.

Can’t emphasize enough how important it is to be fully prepared AND to relax. I read through my dissertation several times before sending it to my advisor early. Getting her the best first draft possible allowed her to get me edits back pretty fast. 

Went over my talk with my advisor a couple times and then rehearsed it several times to my wife (also in my field).

Once I had my talk down, I spent a couple days doing NOTHING. Hung out at home and watched some tv and baseball. 

Couldn’t be happier right now!",28,441,199.3587104857989,GradSchool
Best version so far,,10,438,552.2009790043174,GradSchool
Professor hired mercenaries to rescue student from ISIS in Iraq after he said he wouldn't finish his thesis,,40,446,305.2600299302433,GradSchool
Passed my defense with NO revisions!!!,"I defended on Friday, which took about 1 1/2 hours of the allotted 2 hour time block. I was given the results immediately but it didn't really sink in until today. I am done with my dissertation! I am completely 100% entirely done!!!!",25,443,222.91606002283592,GradSchool
Tip: Just starting your thesis research? Set a goal to read one paper per day,"This was some advice that worked really well for me. Read one paper per day. Print it out, read it entirely (edit- or skim the relevant sections), and make handwritten notes at the top of the paper that will summarize the one-sentence importance of the paper and how it may apply to your research. You will slowly build a database in your head for when you start writing.

Plus, one paper a day is manageable and a realistic goal and helps you build confidence in your topic.

&#x200B;

edit- To the people saying this isn't reasonable: that's fine, each field is different. This post is about setting tangible goals. Find a goal that works for you and stick with it. Create a program and stick to it. IMHO this sub needs more contributions on how to be successful in grad school and where to start.",51,433,278.3125067820952,GradSchool
Working on anything in grad school feels like this,,20,437,741.38732159691,GradSchool
My former supervisor was a bully who tried to kick me out of the field and censored my research. I've now finished the probationary period proving I'm a competent scientist in order to finish my PhD at another university. I'm still gonna be an astronomer! :D,,36,437,670.2528192820952,GradSchool
I'm ending all of this,,11,430,568.7978192820951,GradSchool
"As I enter my last year, I just want to share a few thoughts with incoming students:","1) Impostor Syndrome is 100% real and will affect you (yes, even you). It's okay, though. You can overcome it. You just have to build up enough knowledge & experience that you start thinking, ""hey, maybe I do know what I'm talking about"". It takes time.

2) Related to #1, regardless of how much you know about your topic, there is *much more* that you do *not* know. Cultivate humility, learn from others, and don't be afraid to admit you don't know something. Real learning will not happen until you accomplish these things. Plus, you're not fooling anyone; I wouldn't even attempt it.

3) Try as much as possible not to compete with your cohort. Don't undermine them, don't put them down, don't be upset when they succeed. Foster a support network, based on care and trust. Help them and they will help you. They will be your colleagues, now and forever.

4) Seek out mental health resources, early and often! Can't stress this enough.

5) Show up to your advisory meetings with a clear agenda, starting with things that are most time-sensitive. Your advisors are busy and may not have the time to be as involved as they want to be in your life. Make it easy for them.

6) The second you start writing the 3rd paragraph of an email, stop. Delete the whole thing. Schedule a meeting instead.

7) Get 8 hours of sleep a night. Non-negotiable.

8) And lastly, honest to god, *very few people are working as hard as they claim they are*. There is this weird culture in graduate school centered around complaining about how much you have to work. I'm not saying you won't have to work hard or that others *don't* work hard, but take what you hear from other people with a grain of salt; I see a lot of self-reported work inflation around me. Given that there's so much flexibility in how to get work done, there are many ways to get it done. Someone else's method may not work for you. Don't let it get to you.
",70,433,806.051222059873,GradSchool
This is exactly grad school,,13,430,620.9376340969101,GradSchool
Finally quitting my PhD,"It's all finally come to an end. Just got out of the ER where I spent the night after the cops showed up at my lab and took me away because someone told them I was crying in the lab and when they showed up they determined I wanted to kill myself. I've begged my university for mental health care for the last six years and been turned down because I have ""pre-existing depression and anxiety"" and the counselors refuse to see me. I've tried for six years to get off-campus help (I wonder how many hundreds of therapists I've called by now) and only just found a therapist four weeks ago, who I can't see anymore because I'll lose my health insurance when I leave grad school. My ""mental health care"" until this point has been a combination of involuntary and voluntary visits to the ER when I get to the point where I feel the only other option is killing myself. 

&#x200B;

I used to have promise and potential. Somehow I managed to get into a top PhD program in STEM and work for one of the most well-regarded researchers in my field, even though everyone always told me I was too dumb, that I only got in because I check ""diversity"" boxes, that I don't deserve to be where I am. I am so excited by my research and it is the only thing that has been keeping me going, and now it has been taken away. If I had gotten help one of the hundreds of times I asked, begged, pleaded--perhaps I would have a chance to be successful. Now I'll never know what my life could have been like. 

&#x200B;

Dear universities: when you offer counseling services you have an obligation to help all students. You have an obligation to make sure students get the care they need when they ask for help, not cast them out into the cold when they are at their most vulnerable. You all have blood on your hands.",45,427,213.07658085616927,GradSchool
I made it!,"I defend my dissertation on Monday, April 9. After 6 years as a PhD student, I'm at the end and the beginning. I start a post doc in June. 

I dropped out of high school in the tenth grade, was a homeless teenager for a while. Didn't get a GED until I was already a (single) mom of one, and in my early 30s. 
I started taking classes at community college, encouraged along by my husband. 

Now, mom of three kids, my oldest in college, and I'm almost there. I realize I am an outlier. Not many high school drop outs go on to get a PhD, I've had a lot of help along the way. I hope I'm able to give back one day. ",21,430,563.8240114117248,GradSchool
I though that when I got to Grad School I would stop doing assignments the night before they were due....I was wrong!,Edit: I *thought* I would stop making typos too. Wrong again!,87,422,309.7943933561692,GradSchool
I got 5K mini research grant!,"To reduce some inherently depressing atmosphere in this sub, I want to share some good news; I am in my 1st semester as a masters student, and one of my committee member who's a big name in dairy industry and sensory science just approved $5000 mini grant for my research! I am proud that I accomplished something that I can put in my resume :-)

Edit: Holy shit this is a lot of likes Thanks yall",18,425,172.09249520802112,GradSchool
Found this a little too relatable...,,9,427,592.1841387265397,GradSchool
When you're a PhD student working on nanomaterials but have the mental age of a 12 year old,,29,429,788.5645553932063,GradSchool
I just defended my PhD dissertation today!,"I successfully defended my dissertation today! It went so well, even I was surprised. There were no hard questions and no revisions were asked in the end! 
I feel so lightweight! It has been 6 years since I have started my PhD journey and there were times I thought I was never going to finish. But here I am! 
Just wanted to share it. There is a light at the end of tunnel after all!

Edit: wow! I did not expect so many positive responses! What a supportive team we have here. Thank each and every one of you so much for your best wishes and  I wish everyone an easy journey.",29,427,97.90004150431741,GradSchool
The way we treat mental versus physical illness in academia is bullshit,"I was diagnosed with schizophrenia at 18, and although I have my ups and downs, I manage it pretty well. I got a grand total of 1 (one) extension in undergrad for an assignment, which I didn't even end up using. I keep up with treatment, I do my work, I don't complain. During the first year of my PhD I had to take a week off for treatment, and when I came back, my supervisor called me incompetent and a burden, saying I needed to learn to deal with it on my own, that everyone has challenges (suggesting I was asking for special treatment), and that I shouldn't ask for advice or time off again. 

Now it turns out I have a (non-cancerous) brain tumour, and have had it since before my diagnosis. My supervisor has completely changed his tune, telling me to take as much time off as I need. He asks me every meeting how I'm feeling, and says I can work to whatever schedule works best for me. 

I'm a bit tired and have headaches and have to wear glasses, but I don't really notice it much otherwise. There's every chance that my ""schizophrenia"" is actually caused by the tumour, and that once it shrinks, my symptoms will disappear. Ironically, being diagnosed with a brain tumour may end up being one of the best things to happen in my life so far. My life may get *easier* after this. 

I go to therapy every week and take expensive medication every day to treat my mental illness. I've had a single round of radiation therapy to treat the tumour. Yet he treats schizophrenia like an annoyingly bad character trait that I'm too lazy to overcome and a tumour like some glorious personal battle that I'm bravely fighting.

I always knew that mental illness and physical illness aren't treated the same, but watching my supervisor do that massive backflip is disgusting.",23,429,48.798560022835936,GradSchool
Duke Biostat department warns international students: speaking foreign language in break room may make it harder to get opportunities in this program.,"Quote Megan Neely, the director of graduate studies in Duke biostat in her email to all students on 02/28/18: “Bottom line: continuing this practice may make it harder for you and future international students to get research opportunities while in the program.” 

[Email screenshot](http://imgur.com/VLg9HQ1) 


And they did it again yesterday.
[Screenshot 1](http://imgur.com/vT1XrAP)

Update: seems like Dr.Neely is currently suspended as DGS. ",163,422,262.21197437468777,GradSchool
It feeks like every other grad student is a multilingual globe-trotting polymath,"...and here I am, just a farm boy who grew up liking bugs more than tractors. 

How are all y'all pulled straight out of summer blockbuster scripts? It's amazing.

Edit:  you don't know how much these comments mean. And NOT ONE person left a snarky comment about my fat-fingered title mishap. Y'all are wonderful.",64,422,25.818432708021117,GradSchool
The Reality of Academia,,19,420,738.2711641895025,GradSchool
British PhD student researching UAE defence policy sentenced to 25 years in prison in UAE for 'espionage'. The trial lasted 5 minutes and he was denied access to his lawyer or translator.,,41,420,327.4506317820952,GradSchool
Just got accepted as a PhD Student!,It's a an even mix of 'hell yeah' and 'what the hell did I get myself into'.,53,419,397.36197437468775,GradSchool
Undergrad students using the course evaluation to blame their inability to grasp concepts on the TA’s accent despite the rest of class not having any issues (2018),,22,424,418.40533085616926,GradSchool
How I feel attending my first academic conference,,18,422,825.0567197450582,GradSchool
Update: My adviser has been removed as chair and been ordered not to communicate with me,"[Previous Post](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/c5qtcn/update_submitted_a_formal_grievance_against_my/)  


So after an exhaustive investigation I am meeting weekly with the Dean of my College as the new chair of my committee. I am at the end of my 5th year. I submitted a review in April without my adviser's approval and its been accepted without revisions. The Dean and other professors are working with me to put together a dissertation on negative results from my attempted experiments. I think the level of mismanagement I've been under is forcing their hand to get me out.  


In addition I've been allowed to add a chapter on my teaching methods. I have a copyright on some of my materials and wanted to publish when I first came here. Unfortunately every professor rejected working with me. I got published through another university and have been working with other institutions to move these projects forward. The Dean was flabbergasted at the work I've done with my teaching and that faculty have given me no guidance on turning this into a PhD.   


My lab is shutting down and the Dean will be personally funding me to move to another city, live with my girlfriend, and finish writing.  


And the best part. After meeting with the Dean my adviser has been attempting to meet with me to discuss the situation. He's only on campus from 11-2 so I've been taking long lunch and going to the library to avoid him. The Dean has told him all communication is to include him, and these E-mails have been to me directly. I've replied cc-ing both the Dean and the School of Graduate Studies. His replies have all been to me directly. Everyone has seen this. He has done it multiple times over the past two weeks even after the Dean E-mailed the both of us telling him to stop.  


My adviser is now considered to be directly defying the Dean and acting contrary to how he's agreed to move forward. The Dean has said he doesn't think my adviser understands what the problem is, how serious it is, and why he can no longer participate in my graduate committee. He's been told to end all communication with me and is being called in to review his behavior for a third time this year.  


It means a lot to me to be told that this situation is not my fault and that me working harder is not the solution. I'm trying to dig myself out of the despair that I've fallen into as a result of this program. The Dean and the other faculty that are working with me are very positive and are making me want to get back into my field. I believe when I move and am living with someone who loves me I'll be able to put something together and defend in the Fall.",27,415,88.14754150431742,GradSchool
My imposter syndrome has imposter syndrome.,"Most of us struggle with imposter syndrome. It’s nothing new. I’ll feel myself comparing my achievements or intellect to other scientists around me and coming up short, feeling inadequate, like I just faked my way in and don’t belong. Then I recognize that that’s just imposter syndrome speaking and most of us get it from time to time. 

But wait, is it really imposter syndrome? Sure, *real* academics get it. And it’s totally valid when they do - they’re just as deserving as everyone around them. But am I just appropriating that term to make it sound like I belong here, when those feelings are actually very real feelings of failure and the accurate sense that everyone else really *is* better than me? Is my imposter syndrome just another way I pretend to be a real academic? 

AAAAAAAAAAA",55,414,43.25016881913223,GradSchool
Passed my defense yesterday!,"22 weeks pregnant with my second little one and I got through writing my dissertation in 5 weeks, presented at a conference a week prior to my oral defense and submitted a post doc fellowship application the day of my defense... woohoo it’s all done!!!! I can finally sleep and watch movies!!!!! First PhD in my family and have worked hard to reduce my public speaking anxiety! Also first-gen from low income family and lovely Mexican parents. I did it!  

Edit:  

Wait i just realized I have some minor revisions for my dissertation to do.... lol! Ok I’m almost done!",25,412,182.02999520802112,GradSchool
Getting ready for the last week of classes.,,20,418,537.1149141895027,GradSchool
TAing a 200-level lab section for non-majors,,40,417,1072.1517544672804,GradSchool
A reminder that picking the right advisor may be more important than picking the right university or program,,20,412,305.91714798579886,GradSchool
Almost an hour of grinding away at my dissertation and I've made good progress...,My keyboard is looking much cleaner than when I sat down to work. It's amazing what a cotton swab and a little rubbing alcohol will do! Too bad it doesn't help with the writing. lol,15,406,149.99746048579888,GradSchool
Inigo's Guide to Advising Graduate Students,,8,409,413.23382622653963,GradSchool
First week of grad school,,10,411,416.2773678932063,GradSchool
Friendly reminder: don't forget to back up your data,"If you're feeling the Monday blues and haven't done much all day, at least back up your data.",67,409,211.03396511542851,GradSchool
Take care of yourself,"Hi friends, just a reminder that it's hard to do your best work when you're tired and hungry. It's ok to pause to take care of yourself. You'll feel better afterward and be able to focus better.",32,405,247.05134937468776,GradSchool
Duke Grad program director steps down after warning students not to speak Chinese,,162,412,261.8146479857989,GradSchool
"There's a reason they are both called ""institutions""",,18,411,560.0020322450581,GradSchool
And you thought your CV was lacking,,12,411,763.8533748376508,GradSchool
"Well if even Amazon tells me to get back to my dissertation, I should probably do something about it",,8,410,480.22347900431737,GradSchool
Grad School Can Be Fun!,"I remember coming across this subreddit and r/chemistry five years ago. I see it hasn't changed much: A lot of grad students seem to come online to rant about how much their lives suck and about how terrible it is in grad school. It almost dissuaded me from pursuing my PhD back then. I'm *so glad* that it didn't.

I'm an organic chemistry PhD student, and I have had the **time of my life** in grad school. My advisor is great, my labmates are great, my research is awesome, and I feel like I have a purpose. I'm really happy with what I've accomplished and discovered during my PhD studies. Grad school has been a really fucking interesting and engaging part of my life.

I'm not going to write a super long, post, because I really have nothing to rant about. I just wanted to let people know that it's not all bad and, more importantly, that **grad school can be fun!**",70,403,110.44440493024334,GradSchool
“But we have a student counseling center”,"Great. That is taking SUCH good care of our mental health.

Resources are available where I can talk to a trainee psychologist about how frustrating and miserable my life is, for a maximum of six sessions, and then afterward I am going to feel so much better that the thought of stepping out in front of a bus will never cross my mind again no matter how much my department and advisor screw around with my funding, future, and sanity.

But we have posters up on the walls for the counseling center, so everything is OK now and we are doing a great job addressing the issue of graduate student mental health.

**Edit:** Not hating on the counseling centers here, they do the best they can. My complaint is with faculty/departments that think they're ""addressing the issue graduate student mental health"" by putting up posters for the counseling center, instead of addressing that the way the treat us CAUSES a lot of the problems. ""Sure I cut your arm off with a chainsaw, but I told you that we have a cupboard with bandaids...""",78,407,180.08680076357666,GradSchool
Grad school wisdom from William gibson,,15,407,454.2642428932063,GradSchool
As a recently employed Grad Student,,15,402,406.5462683561693,GradSchool
I passed my thesis defense!,"Just some minor revisions, and then it’s all _really_ over (until, of course, the PhD...). I was so incredibly nervous leading up to today, but my advisor said the thesis was amazing and I could easily get several publications out of it! Ah!!!!!",21,402,238.94029613394704,GradSchool
Smile today,,15,400,697.375145670984,GradSchool
Passed my PhD Defense without Revisions!,"Wow! I did it! They loved the final product and the defense! 

While I was mainly a lurker here, this community's support made all the difference...thanks guys! you helped me persevere! 

wooohooo!",45,400,67.2254928932063,GradSchool
There's always one.,,23,393,694.2374952080211,GradSchool
A lot of people think that having a PhD means you are an expert on your subject...,"What it actually means, is that you became a professional at facing disasters. Just dropped the pot containing dinner for your in-laws on the kitchen floor? You sigh, clean it up, quickly assess the contents of the cupboard and remaining time and move to plan B. ",56,396,316.07200909691,GradSchool
I passed my doctoral qualifying exams today!!,I’m officially a dual PhD candidate!!,16,394,186.09667344876186,GradSchool
"The Professor, The Postdoc, The Grad Student, and the Undergraduate",,12,392,946.3604813191322,GradSchool
"My friend's wife found a spoof of ""Goodnight Moon"" entitled ""Goodnight Lab."" This page is particularly accurate.",,5,394,507.15578224505816,GradSchool
Great grandfather’s handwritten thesis (1896) Masters in electrical engineering,"[Thesis](https://www.ideals.illinois.edu/bitstream/handle/2142/91736/5957971.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y)

Was told to post this here, maybe you all will enjoy it.

Doing some digging into my family tree when I found my great grandfathers thesis for his masters in electrical engineering at the age of 23.

Went on to become a physics professor at the university of Nebraska

Rumored to have worked with Tesla.",37,385,398.4146364117248,GradSchool
Someone just published the answer to a problem I was working on for my thesis,"I am at a complete loss for words. I work in mathematics and have been working on a particular problem for almost a year. I was not expecting much in terms of competition given how specific and relatively inactive my field is (the line of research I am working in really has papers typically with \~5 citations per year). Moreover, there is much breadth in terms of the types of problems people work on in this field. Now, lo and behold, not only is a paper published this month on the exact problem I am trying to solve, but they do it more or less THE SAME WAY I WAS DOING IT (i.e., I can't publish an ""alternative proof"" type paper or anything). I am picking up the pieces and looking towards finding another problem in this area which maybe I can apply my work to... but FUCK.

&#x200B;

Just needed to vent.",36,387,120.66957854135445,GradSchool
Today my dissertation project went from “maybe it’ll work out” to “will work enough to at least guarantee graduation” and I could not be more relieved,"I’m kinda a weird case because I’m not the brightest student in the classroom and I am like only acceptable at analyzing literature, and I have no plans on staying in lab science past my PhD program, so I’m not super pressed about pumping out a million papers or looking for a breakthrough during grad school. I just wanna graduate with as minimal stress and as little time as possible (I already felt like I did my time in this dept when I was a masters student here, I’m ready to move on to the next step of my life)

I’m only a second year trainee but I’m reasonably reassured that my project’s future is a bit more certain and I am honestly just relieved that I most likely will not encounter a deadend with my thesis project (and be forced to backtrack or start over). My departments average graduating time is 5.5 years but I wanna push for 4.5, just not sure how feasible that is lol.. I’d be ok with 5 years 

Anyway, I’m still way relieved :)",17,386,266.5745901154285,GradSchool
TIFU by trying to impress the new PI,"This happened on Friday. 

It had been a long, hard week of confusing (and mostly unsuccessful) bioinformatics that had apparently turn my brain into mush.

I went into the office where my lab group sits to say hi to the new researcher who had just moved here to set up his own lab. He seems like a nice enough guy and he's got this pretty awesome looking plant on his desk.

I - trying to be cool and wanting to make a good impression - strike up a conversation about said houseplant and how it really looks like this plant called [samphire](https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/glossary/samphire), which is a salty plant that grows in marshes and is often eaten with fish (side note: it's delicious). He seems interested in my plant conversation.

The fuck-up occurs when my putty-like post-bioinformatics brain decides that it MUST know if this plant is samphire.

So what do I do? 

I eat some of his plant.

In front of him.

It was not samphire, but was just a regular houseplant.

I then wished him a good weekend and left, apparently thinking this was a normal interaction.

I just went in there to drop off some cookies and it hit me like a flashback.

This poor guy just started here and within his first week a weird PhD student has eaten his desk plant.

send help.

Edit: thanks for the gold! I’m glad I could make you all laugh! ",29,386,610.4903077080211,GradSchool
"Anyone else in a never-ending cycle of ""if I can just make it through this week...""?","I feel like I've been scrambling all semester to meet various deadlines and keep all projects/manuscripts/conferences on track, and still am behind with everything. I keep telling myself I just have to make it to such-and-such deadline but there is always another one looming close behind. 

That said, at least the constant deadlines are forcing me to be very productive :)",34,385,341.1144280783915,GradSchool
We all do it,,9,382,511.7171364117248,GradSchool
"Last few months of PhD, supervisor walked up to me and said ""here, you'll need this -- just keep going!""",,45,385,1684.3723563191322,GradSchool
What has two thumbs and successfully defended his dissertation today?,"This guy. 

_deletes asterisk_",21,379,564.86982159691,GradSchool
Critically Acclaimed Horror Film of the 2010s or Your Ph.D. Program?,,15,373,64.04911557839148,GradSchool
"Just submitted my dissertation. Come what may, it is over. It is done.","And now the long wait.

I'm so numb I can't even feel relieved. ",21,380,239.3895438191322,GradSchool
I passed my defense!,I now have my PhD! It was a really rough road but totally worth it in the end. I can't wait to start my postdoc work! ,22,377,523.0662683561693,GradSchool
"""How's the PhD?""",,11,376,770.4410021524654,GradSchool
"A gif I thought belonged here, keep pushing",,17,375,805.0377845598729,GradSchool
The choice is yours,,29,377,624.8514651154285,GradSchool
I'm getting too old for these...,,28,374,1516.3584442820952,GradSchool
You ever just want to give up and go back to delivering pizza?,"I just had a rough meeting with my advisor. Turns out, my assumptions about the chemistry of the system were wrong, and the work I've spent almost a month on is almost meaningless. Also I have to redo a significant part of my analysis because I forgot to include an important element and I feel so dumb. 

Sometimes I think it would be better if I just went back to delivering pizza. Life was so easy, I didn't doubt myself 24/7. It's not hard to be good at delivering pizza. I even did the math, it wouldn't be much of a salary drop. I could make it work. I guess I need someone to talk me out of quitting to deliver pizza for the rest of my life.

Edit: thank you so much for your thoughts and encouragement! I'm feeling much better, and I realize I don't actually want to quit my program. I'm very blessed to be here, and generally things are going well. It's just a nice fantasy sometimes, reliving my glory days of pizza delivery, and sometimes I can get over stressed and over dramatic.",75,377,13.298548448761855,GradSchool
Thesis defense this afternoon! It's blowing up.,"I defend my master's thesis in a little over an hour. Just two hours ago my committee chair e-mailed me and said ""two committee members (note: I have 3 members total) are concerned about the quality of the content of the thesis. Please meet an hour before your defense to discuss."" They've had the thesis for a while now, and I've tried to contact her for days now with no response. I've been through ups and downs with this thesis, and I've been working closely with the third committee member to even finish this thing. It's not even as if the two committee members who are ""concerned"" were out of the loop at any time! They could have expressed concern any freaking time last week! I forwarded the e-mail to the third committee member and she is so mad about the situation. It's nice to have at least have one person in my corner.

Safe to say that I was far more confident before that e-mail today, and now I am completely shaken up. I can't imagine that anybody would have agreed to this if my paper was shit, but now I am feeling like it absolutely is a flaming pile of crap. More than anything in the world, I want to be done.

Wish me luck, y'all. I'm gonna need it!!

EDIT: It was stupid bullshit drama between the three members, and I got dragged into it. Overall,  I got good feedback, and...I SUCCESSFULLY DEFENDED MY THESIS!!! WHOOOO!!!",23,376,175.18351372653962,GradSchool
I'm without an asterisk now,"I defended today.  While it was exciting, it was kind of anticlimactic.  I've worked on a thing for 5.5 years, then gave a pretty solid 30 minute public talk, took some questions, then spent about 40 minutes in a private session with the committee.  I got a few tough questions, but nothing unreasonable.  It's just over.  I went out tonight, and 4 different friends bought me a beer.  The real hero bought me dinner.  It was built up to this big moment and it's just over.  I'm doing OK, but I want more people to realize this is a possibility going into the defense.",36,374,364.95350215246555,GradSchool
"First week of my PhD and my home flooded, I’ve had no prep time for my new GTA gig, and my cousin died this morning.",,22,374,419.78402298579886,GradSchool
Waiting on the NSF GRFP announcement makes this C&H comic especially painful,,25,375,574.3170553932063,GradSchool
I just got my PhD in neuroscience and made this little video documenting my dissertation writing and defense journey in case any are interested! Cheers!,,37,378,36.26923131913223,GradSchool
I defended my thesis!!,"I'm a Dr.!  No, I don't have a job yet or a paper published yet, but it's over!  There IS an end!!
",35,375,448.39808548579884,GradSchool
Baby + Grad School achievement unlocked,"Am currently writing my dissertation proposal with my newborn strapped to my chest while bouncing on an exercise ball.  [Seriously](https://imgur.com/nw0yJnA).

Any other new moms out there?  How ya doin'? Tell me your secrets!",43,367,208.02668502283592,GradSchool
"Graduate School Can Have Terrible Effects on People's Mental Health Ph.D. candidates suffer from anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation at astonishingly high rates.",,95,368,320.89632622653966,GradSchool
It’s significantly different!,,90,369,423.8879813191322,GradSchool
"Is anyone else tired of the “I’m so busy, stressed, sleep deprived, etc.” culture of graduate school?","


Hi all, first time poster here! I’m approaching the end of my year of graduate school, and I’m genuinely happy to be in school. Yes, it’s certainly tough and overwhelming at times, but I expected it. 

My gripe is how many students I see in class, or on Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook, etc. incessantly complaining about the work. I understand that we all cope differently, but it just seems so counter intuitive to me. If you have time to post a perfectly curated photo of your Starbucks coffee and laptop, then it seems you have time to write that paper. 

It’s not necessarily how they spend their time that bothers me, but the message they are sending to others. Anyone else annoyed by this or do I just need to get a life? Ha!",118,367,40.91442807839148,GradSchool
when you're at a conference talk and someone uses your research as a positive example,,8,367,424.3473910413544,GradSchool
Rewatching Arrested Development,"Third year PhD student here. I used to think Tobias was a depressing failure. Now I see him as a man freed from the shackles of academia hell pursuing his dreams of becoming an actOR! An actor for God sakes!

https://youtu.be/vLxXKvFgJnU

Go on Tobias!",23,370,117.38649983765075,GradSchool
Why go home when you can live at a desk,,68,366,472.0854928932063,GradSchool
Experimenting [x-post from r/comics],,9,363,680.7240924302433,GradSchool
Worst part of the first week,,23,363,781.0762683561693,GradSchool
When I've been staring blankly at a job application for 90 minutes.,,11,363,816.1575762265396,GradSchool
What the editor really wants to say...,,27,363,518.830272985799,GradSchool
I created this account a year ago to complain about my PI and now a year later I've successfully defended PhD and finished writing my final two articles,"My PI was delaying my submission of my dissertation and I created this account to vent. I finally convinced him half a year ago to let me submit which I then successfully defended 5 months ago. And today I finally finished with the revisions on the last article which I'm submitting as a first author from the lab. I'm finally done with the lab, have my PhD, and ready to move on.",10,360,51.02299289320631,GradSchool
My poor boyfriend just made a perfectly innocuous joke about me failing out of grad school and I burst into tears. Grad school has really done a number on me.,"I've been working at a Starbucks all day while my boyfriend was at work, and we both went home for lunch together. When it was time to get back to work, I decided that I wanted to stay home to take a nap. My boyfriend said something like, ""well if you're okay with failing out of grad school..."" and I burst into tears. Even when it seems like I'm doing okay, I'm  seconds away from a break down.",49,362,160.22441650431742,GradSchool
Writing my thesis,,14,360,1057.0274489117248,GradSchool
I felt compelled to post this. If you are struggling please get help.,,38,358,105.98367576357667,GradSchool
I successfully defended today. PhD,"And passed with no revisions. I questioned if I belonged in academia 2 years ago when I had an injuy that was hard to recover from and had an awful advisor. 

He left for another position and I got a second chance with my committee. And had the support and mentorship that finally made me feel like I was where I belonged. 

Remember when you had a milestone birthday, and people would ask you if you feel different? 
I do feel different. It really does feel different. If you are lucky enough to be in a field you love - stick with it. Part of grad school is the bullshit you have to put up with. The work with no credit. The academic bullying. Take that with you, and when you are the mentor you can be the type  of mentor you wish you'd had. 
",15,359,554.0153424302433,GradSchool
"Two years ago, I quit grad school. I wanted to share what has happened since then.","I wanted to share my story because, 2 years ago, when I was grappling with my decision to quit or stay in my PhD program, I couldn't find many stories of people who had quit a science PhD. It was a difficult decision to make but was the right one for me in the end. 

I am not trying to encourage anyone to follow the same path, I only want to share my story in case it might bring some perspective to someone going through a similar struggle.

Some background: in 2016 I started a PhD program in a subfield of biology. It became very clear I was unhappy. After doing 4 lab rotations in the first year and not being able to imagine myself in any of those labs for the next 4-5 years, I decided to leave the program. It's hard to describe everything that went into the decision and it usually ends up sounding like it wasn't a big deal. But it was a huge deal (lots of crying, I'll admit it) and lots of talking and thinking and internet searching. Maybe you can relate.

I quit grad school with nothing else lined up. I don't necessarily recommend doing it the way I did because I got lucky. After I told the necessary people about my decision, one of them knew someone at a local biotech company and recommended me. I got a job a week later. I 100% recognize my luck here and this unfortunately means I don't have much to say about the job search after quitting.

I worried that people would judge me for quitting grad school. The reality has been a mixed bag. I found 95% of people were supportive. One friend said ""if you felt like you needed to quit enough for you to go through with it, then that was absolutely the right decision."" There were some people who asked why I didn't at least get a Master's degree. One person dismissed me as the type of person who quits things easily. I'm sure other people have formed all sorts of opinions. I thought it would be a huge shadow following me around for a long time but, for the most part, that hasn't been the case. Especially 2 years later, it is becoming a smaller and smaller blip on the timeline of my life. It's on my resume under ""experience"" and, when people ask, I tell them. It has not been a problem or deal breaker so far.

I'm still working at that same company and have been promoted twice. I love my colleagues and the work that I do. I don't feel the sense of dread in the mornings that I felt in grad school. I don't feel the need to escape my life on weekends anymore. And I realized it is possible to move up in science-related work without a PhD. Grad school has the potential to be an amazing thing but it's not for everyone and it definitely wasn't for me. Admitting that to myself was hard (I had to go to therapy and everything). Everyone around you wants to see you succeed and wants you to stay in school (at least that was the case for me) and seeing a therapist can give you an impartial person to speak to. That helped a lot and I recommend it if you are going through anything similar and have access to one.

My main point is: it works out. Life is about trying things and I don't see leaving a PhD program as any kind of failure. We all try things and sometimes they're a bad fit or we don't like them so we move on. 

I'm not trying to push anyone in any direction and I hope this post won't come across that way. I would have wanted to read a story like mine when I was deciding on quitting. Maybe it will help someone, maybe it won't. Figured I'd share just in case.

Edit: Wow, thank you for the amazing responses and for the gold. I wasn't sure how this post would go but I am so glad so many people have shared their experiences here as well. I hope others going through similar things now and in the future can read this post and feel less alone. This is an amazing community.",60,353,176.95088641172484,GradSchool
"Ladies and gentleman! I present to you, for the first time as a doctor, Dr. orion726!!!",I did it! I'm officially a PhD! :),30,356,494.03742576357666,GradSchool
WHO recognizes burn out as medical condition,,14,360,141.13568965246557,GradSchool
Anxiety: academia edition,,16,356,837.6177961339471,GradSchool
"Grad School, in a nutshell (x-post r/engrish)",,9,359,1333.5168817820952,GradSchool
The Academic Rage Quit,"Angrily slamming your laptop screen closed and then immediately reopening it to ensure you didn’t crack the screen. 

Yep, it’s definitely midterm season. ",46,354,232.05535400431742,GradSchool
The Life Cycle of an Academic,,23,359,440.4344859487619,GradSchool
Femme Grad Pro Tip,"Waterproof mascara is great for making your crying session in your adviser's office less noticeable to the rest of the lab.



Edit: Thank you, stranger, for the reddit gold! It has honestly been a rough one today. That cheered me up substantially (I'm sure the effect would be significant if I had a way of measuring it)! ",38,354,757.36419659691,GradSchool
Every PhD's worst nightmare just became true,"So I'm a PhD candidate and submitted my thesis for examination in Sep/Oct last year. Thesis was then sent to 2 external reviewers, one of whom completed the review within the given timeframe and the second one ended up pulling out at the last minute so a replacement had to be found. I recently got both final reports back and learned the following:

- Reviewer #1 submitted the report in early December. He/she thought my thesis was excellent and recommended a pass with no amendments required and showing significant contributions. 

- Reviewer #2 pulled out mid Dec, but my university only learned about it in Jan because of the 3-4 weeks summer break. 

- Also mid Dec a paper was published which literally destroys another paper that was published 2 years earlier, which I used as reference and would ultimately lead to my most interesting findings (you see where I'm going...)

- Mid-late Jan my university finds a replacement reviewer #2, who submitted the final report this week. He/she thought that my thesis would have been excellent, if it wasn't because the most significant bits of my analysis are garbage as I apparently don't even really understand what I'm writing about. Recommended major revise and re-submit. 

- I've now been left to fully reanalyse 1/3 of the experimental results presented and then rewrite ~1/4 of the bloody thesis, which they somehow expect me to re-submit within 8 weeks. All while I'm also working full time because *of course this should be an easy pass with only minor corrections if even*, at least according to my supervisor. 

This has to be every PhD's worst nightmare. I *know* that it always was mine... 

I'm not even staying in Academia, just let me graduate and I promise that chapter will never see the light of day again... I'm so fucking done with grad school!!",29,355,235.36739104135447,GradSchool
It's in!!!,"Everyone I know and love is sleeping as it's almost 5am here, so I have no one to share this excitement with. I figured you all might appreciate it. Well, more so than my cat, anyway. 

I finally finished writing my dissertation and sent it off to my committee!!!!! Tomorrow I'll be scheduling my defense date! It's all very surreal, but I'm so freaking pumped to finally see the light at the end of the tunnel!!!! ",43,355,280.5576803932063,GradSchool
To everyone starting a program in the next months...Congrats!,,37,351,462.31960168950263,GradSchool
"In case the burden of studying is too high, I recommend using these research-based study techniques which will maximize learning, minimize time spent, and prepare you for exams. The techniques are - spacing/distributed learning, interleaving, metacognition, retrieval practice, and chunking.",,19,350,234.02682391172482,GradSchool
Being a woman in <male-dominated field> is exhausting,"My TA evals had two comments: “she could be more prepped, or could have answered questions with more authority” and “many of the male students in the class were extremely rude to her causing her to (very understandably) become flustered.”

Okay sure, the first part is fair. It’s hard to prepare daily hour-long material from scratch and have it be interesting/useful. But how do I answer questions with more authority? Is it like, a tone of voice thing? And now I have to be conscientious of that next time I’m in front of a classroom because apparently I don’t answer questions with enough natural authority. 

I appreciate the second comment pointing that out. It’s true, there were some guys who were pretty rude, but it didn’t bother me until just now because now I guess it (understandably) bothered a lot of people in the class too. Which is like, okay, cool, now instead of just ignoring people’s bullshit I’ve got to stamp it down. Will I be seen as a bitchy ruthless human being? Hm. 

I held office hours, I held extra office hours, I answered emails quickly, and I had decent attendance in my sections. I had students (all girls) ask me if they could meet with me one-on-one for better help understanding the material. (The other TA - who is a really nice guy - wasn’t approached by anyone for that. Oh, also in case you’re curious, my TA evals were lower than his but I’m not taking that personally since he’s objectively more comfortable with the material than I was.)

Anyways. I worked hard to be a decent TA, and my ratings were like, *just* barely over the absolute middle of the scale, cool. I know I shouldn’t take this as a lesson to not give a fuck about helping my students later - I mean, why teach just for the evals?, but, well, it’s tough to realize that I can’t ignore my gender when I teach. Now I’ve got to teach and be more authoritative and get male students to respect me, or at least shut up?? Of course, maybe a male version of exactly me would have still gotten those comments. Regardless, this story is the tamest of gender-related stories in my field (if even), and I’m afraid of my existence as a woman becoming more difficult and putting me in more objectively unfair situations if I stick with academia. It’s exhausting. I’m tired. I wish I were stronger and better. ",127,352,248.39530770802114,GradSchool
Today I received my PhD.,"I submitted all my final paperwork today. I'm officially done. I suspect it will still be a while until I *feel* like i'm actually done. Just wanted to brag. 

I've mainly lurked on this subreddit over the years - but I have to say that all of your horror stories and trouble have been a nice coping mechanism to put my own struggles in context.",40,352,783.7164535413544,GradSchool
Defending my PhD Today!,"I just wanted to share some positive vibes with you all. I am finally defending my Ph.D. in mechanical engineering today. It has been a long 11 consecutive years of college. I feel nervous, excited and ready. 
You can do it too! There is light at the end of this long dark twisted tunnel.",35,347,596.3223794672804,GradSchool
(UPDATE) Starting a PhD thousands of miles away from your ill parent...,"A year and some months ago, I wrote here seeking advice. This is the original post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/6fahhf/starting\_a\_phd\_thousands\_of\_miles\_away\_from\_your/](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/6fahhf/starting_a_phd_thousands_of_miles_away_from_your/)

In case someone else is in the same situation I was, I will let you know how it turned out. 

One day in July 2017 or so, I felt I couldn't handle it anymore and I emailed my advisor from the E.R. while I was waiting to see what was going to happen with my mom, whom we had had to rush to the hospital for complications with her symptoms. I had read all the rules and was pretty sure, as you can see in my comments on the original thread, that deferring was not an option. However, my advisor told me I was going to defer my admission, and dealt with the Department and almost everything else for me. The Graduate School was incredibly nice to me, and told me not to worry; they would just send me an official letter I had to sign, and in the next round of admissions they would send me a new admissions package. My mom was very upset I didn't go off to school, but I got to spend her last six months of life with her. She passed away in December 2017.

The University delivered, and I'm currently in my second month of my PhD program. I didn't even have problems when I applied for my brand new visa even though I had to have the previous one cancelled. 

I'm now in the process of getting a therapist to deal with my grief. I'm not going to lie, studying while mourning your mother in a place where you don't really know anyone (I'm single again, because life really likes to challenge you during the hardest times) isn't easy. Insomnia is way too common. It is difficult to focus, and I know I'm always behind in my readings. But I have hope it will get better. 

Thank you everyone for your support a year ago, it really helped me. I hope my story helps someone else, too.",37,344,375.74343270802115,GradSchool
Expertise and imposter syndrome,,22,343,571.276847059873,GradSchool
When my family asks me how grad school's going,,7,345,798.7700299302433,GradSchool
How to address inappropriate looks from a professor?,"I have a weird problem I have no idea how to address.One of the  professors I am currently working on a project with has a tendency to stare at my breasts during our meetings (and before people jump in to ask: I am not wearing anything that shows cleavage or is inappropriate for professional settings in any way). When I catch him do that, it distracts me from our meeting and makes me feel uncomfortable and upset. I  go from feeling like a student having an intellectual conversation with a professor to feeling like a woman talking to a man, who is displaying inappropriate behavior for a professional setting. I know this professor well enough to know that he has no harmful intentions. He has been quite helpful with my time here at my graduate program and I am grateful for the project we are  working on now. So I keep reminding myself that this person is on my side, it might be natural for some people to get distracted like that etc but it's not really working.  I am still uncomfortable  and I get distracted by his looks in return.

The problem is, this project will continue on for at least a few more months (+ he is in my committee) and it is also very uncomfortable to point this problem out to him. So I have no idea how to address the issue but I would like to, somehow.I am sure (unfortunately) that I am not the only female graduate student who has experienced this. So my question is if someone else here has also experienced it and found a way to address it, what did you do? Any suggestions?

**Edit:** I realized that this post has been getting downvoted quite a bit lately. Sorry if people think it is not fitting for the subreddit. However, this seems like an experience some female graduate students (like myself) do experience in graduate school, and given the power dynamics, it is especially hard to navigate it. 

**Edit 2:** Thank you very much to everyone, who proposed solutions! There were some great ideas I never thought of myself that I think might actually be effective. I will try some of them out next week and I hope they make a difference :) And if I find out that this is happening with other female students, too, I will follow u/husky54's advice on talking to the department chair about it. Note: It's been pointed out by u/LastLioness that a faculty member/department chair would better know how to handle this professionally. So I will think about directly talking to them (but will probably keep the identity anonymous at first).",69,342,39.244798448761856,GradSchool
"I had my first ""holy shit"" moment","I'm so excited! I've been doing a PhD program in physical chemistry for about 2 years, and today I had my first ""holy shit, these results are so exciting"" moment! To make a long story short, I'm working on catalysts, and up until now, for like a year, we thought that one of the elements was not involved in catalysis. We used it as part of the support material, to make the Pt more effective. Yesterday, I read a new paper about that element in a similar compound as an active catalyst for a similar reaction that we use. 

So I presented this paper to my advisor, and suggested we look at the data (I had just run catalysis for the support sample by itself without Pt, just as a blank and I hadn't looked at the products for it because I assumed there just wouldn't be anything). I just looked at it, and holy shit I was right!!! It's forming products without platinum! This is huge for my research!! ",37,345,258.2147405783915,GradSchool
It’s 3am. I’m writing a paper. Who’s with me?,"Hey there,
It’s 3am. I’m currently 11 pages in to an 18 page paper that’s due in 11 hours. Anyone else riding the struggle bus to the end of the semester? ",63,345,312.61890724505815,GradSchool
We received an interesting memo from our building manager involving mice in our shared computer lab.,,11,344,404.0988956709841,GradSchool
Grad school is awesome.,"That's right, I actually enjoy grad school.  I like my advisor, he is helpful and nice and has high expectations, but nothing that is physically impossible to do.  I work 50+ hours a week, but you know what, because I enjoy the projects that I work on, and think that the science matters, it's not that big of a deal.  

I live on my grad student stipend.  No, I don't have money coming out of my ears, but I have a decent apartment in a decent part of town, walking distance from school, and live with a roommate.  I'm not broke, I'm not taking out any loans, I don't eat a diet consisting of ramen noodles.  My fiance and I put almost a thousand dollars into savings each month to prepare for our wedding.  I have a social life, hang out with other grad students on a weekly basis, have fun and drink and watch football and whatnot.  

I take a few days of vacation a year, nothing extravagant, but around the holidays I take a few days off and go see my family.  

Research is research, sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't.  Sometimes whole weeks are wasted in one experiment.  But I knew how research was getting in, and I deal with it.  My thesis committee is a helpful group of individuals who want me to succeed.  My advisor is well connected I have good job projects upon the completion of my degree.  My TAing takes up time, but overall I enjoy it, because I like teaching.  Most of my students aren't idiot grade-grubbers, and I even like some of them. 

The reason I am writing this is not to belittle or make fun of the other opinions on this subreddit.  I just see so much negativity and depression on this subreddit, and people that come here that are not yet in grad school see it all the time.  There are people out there that enjoy, or for who it is at the very least, not a completely negative experience.  

tl;dr  Grad school can be enjoyable if you know what you're getting into and have the desire to do it.   ",56,341,1779.1495669672802,GradSchool
Defending my PhD today!,"It's been a LONG road and included some major detours (like firing an abusive chair at the proposal stage and rebuilding my project and committee from scratch) but I made it. Here's hoping I pass and my revisions are not extensive. Wish me luck!

UPDATE: Passed with no revisions!",39,342,203.41777298579888,GradSchool
Grad students have to listen to our bodies during times of stress because our minds are too busy to realize we're stressed out,"Hey everyone,

So, I don't know if others can relate, but I find that because 1) PhD program's demand that you constantly be producing and working and 2) it is often the case that very ""go-go-go"" people are attracted to/ excel within academia, it is easy to not register when you are stressed out.

Within academia, I think the line between enjoying your work and over-working yourself is thin and that, as a result, it is hard to identify when you start pushing yourself too far, which is only magnified by the fact that, because we are constantly spending so much of our emotional and intellectual energy on our work, we tend to forget to check in with ourselves.

Something I have realized (I am currently in my 3rd year of my PhD program after doing a 2 year Masters) is that my body will tell me that I am stressed out long before my mind will start to register it, and that paying attention to your body and the signs it gives you in regards to being stressed is key to promoting your mental health within academia.

I feel like these “signs” vary from person to person, but for me, they are often:

1. Troubles sleeping - either insomnia, particularly even after taking sleeping pills, or waking up throughout the night. 

2. Having achy and sore muscles – this is typically more than the usual back/trap pain and elbow/wrist pain associated with extensive laptop use. For example, my legs get very lethargic when I am stressed, even after a good night sleep. 

3. Feeling abnormally warm – my body temperature is consistently higher. 

4. Feeling exhausted and lethargic during the day even after a good sleep

5. Heart palpitations that do not seem to be linked to anything 

6. Craving sugar or alcohol – not just liking or desiring these things, but legit craving them

7. Increased anxiety that typically is not socially motivated: for example, during high times of stress I am more likely to check to see if my oven is on before leaving the house even if I know it’s off, but personally, I do not feel more anxious around other people (I am also more of an extravert).

8. Increased irritability 

9. Changes in appetite – a few years ago, my appetite went up when I was stressed, but now it decreases. However, in general, I will engage in more “emotional” eating when stressed.

Edit. 10. Sometimes my left eye will twitch. 

Can you all relate? Are there any physical signs that you experience that signal to you that you may be stressed even when your mind doesn’t register it? Got any tips for self-care withina academia?",115,340,237.12533085616928,GradSchool
Goodbye asterisk! Defended my dissertation yesterday!,"Finally getting a day off after months of prep. All that's left is fixing a few formatting issues in my written portion, and I'm all done! ",35,347,349.3465229857989,GradSchool
GOODBYE ASTERISK!,"Successfully defended today! My husband, who couldn't make it, sent me a huge bouquet of flowers. Thank you r/gradschool for all the support; especially u/Ashilikia for the Happy Fridays threads that kept me thinking of all the wonderful, positive events each week to keep me going.

I'm now going to get drunk.",54,341,567.1436178932063,GradSchool
Rant alert: folks in academia are absolutely useless when it comes to helping you find job.,"Like I get it, they've been in academia forever so that's all they know, but come on, you really have no contacts in the community you can set me up with? Also, telling me to volunteer until I find work isn't exactly a viable option since I need money??? My mentors are lovely people, by have been goddamn useless in the job hunt.",92,341,174.38266881913222,GradSchool
My PhD thesis is due tomorrow,"AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH *deep breath* *continues screaming* 

That is all.",24,339,175.7967428932063,GradSchool
"Metrics used to measure academic success, such as the number of publications, number of citations, and impact factor, have become targets and follow Goodhart’s Law, according to which, “when a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure.”",,10,337,133.33254150431742,GradSchool
Just passed my defense,6 years of plenty of failures and drama with my advisor and lots of resourcefulness and surprisingly helpful mentors along the way and I’ve made it!,17,340,179.0676456709841,GradSchool
Georgetown grad workers vote to unionize,,72,342,340.27001835616926,GradSchool
"I was feeling bad about having a cold, but you know what? Fuck it. I'm staying home.","I hate that illness just isn't taken seriously in my group. Yeah, it's ""just a cold"", but I'm a snivelling, coughing, infectious mess. My head is ringing and I feel like shit. All I want to do is wrap myself up in my doona, grab a box of tissues, some lozenges, and cold medicine, make myself some soup, and watch TV or have a nap. 

And I am **not** wrong for wanting to do that! Somewhere along the line, we all forget how to be sick and instead we just try to power through it, spreading the germs around and ironically making ourselves sick for longer. 

I already answered some emails and that is more than enough work for today. I'm not going to feel guilty about it anymore. If you're ill, take the time to recover properly. ",52,343,407.8752382635767,GradSchool
I suspect I'm the only one in my program who'd find this funny...,,23,340,452.18362946728035,GradSchool
Yes this warrants it’s own separate post,I PASSED MY ORAL EXAM!,14,337,540.1796711339471,GradSchool
My paper I worked on for half a decade has finally been accepted by the journal!!! :D,,20,336,555.9600878006137,GradSchool
Shout out to advisors who treat their students with respect,"Before my PhD, I did not understand the importance of having a good mentor. My dissertation chair (mentor) treats me with so much respect, and I am beyond thankful. 

I’ve been having some difficulties with my dissertation topic lately, and I’ve left his office every time feeling so much better. He reassures me and reminds me why the research is important and why I’m getting this PhD. He challenges me, but never makes me feel stupid for not knowing something. 

So, shoutout to all the mentors who treat their students like human beings and with the respect we deserve. ",32,339,594.0175993746878,GradSchool
Doing a PhD with chronic depression is fucking draining,"Even after taking six months off and changing my advisor a year after coming back, I still feel so low on energy. I'm also developing a serious antipathy to just about everyone here. And yes, I'm seeing a therapist whom I really like once a week. I know this can be resolved, but it's just taking a fuckload of time and energy.

Anyone relate to this?

EDIT: Thanks so, SO much for all the support and advice everyone. You have restored a lot of my faith in humanity today. It's disheartening to know that we are all struggling one way or another, but at the same time it helps me have hope that there's a better future ahead. Keep being awesome and smart, guys, because you know you're both of those things.",74,332,216.34434705987297,GradSchool
My University Just Denied the Best Teacher in Our Department Tenure.,"All the grad students just got an email today that the guy who is easily the best teacher I've ever had, and I've been in school a long fucking time, was denied tenure. He is pretty much single-handedly the reason we have good methodological training for grad students.

I'm just so angry and sad about this. They really don't care at all about teaching, do they?",83,338,243.2848794672804,GradSchool
"F*ck all these int'l organizations that are entirely funded by government money, then go on to charge people exorbitant amounts to access their publications.","It pisses me off, whether it's FAO, IMF, WTO or many other organizations whose stated mission is to advance knowledge. Like why do you even exist as an NGO sucking money from more than 190 governments if you're just gonna act like a private firm and ask 300 euro for a report?

&#x200B;",25,334,193.38405770802112,GradSchool
It’s nice to think there are people out there that go to a coffee shop to relax. When I’m there it’s LETS GET A MOVE ON IV THAT CAFFEINE LETS GO MOVE IT MOVE IT WE HAVE ONE HOUR TO EMAIL THAT DRAFT,,26,336,310.36445122653964,GradSchool
Story of my life,,5,333,437.9266618746878,GradSchool
trying to fund your master's,,38,333,753.9869512265396,GradSchool
My PhD defense is in 1.5 hours,"I came to lab super early.. I can no longer stand to go over my slides. I’m so nervous and I don’t know what to do with myself until then, so of course I’m scrolling reddit.

EDIT: I PASSED! I was super nervous but according to my friends in the room I did not seem nervous, so that’s good",20,332,188.37905770802112,GradSchool
Seen at my old institution. /sigh,,4,336,1519.387448911725,GradSchool
I didn’t do anything this weekend,And it felt great. Don’t give in to the over-work culture if you don’t have anything going on at the moment.,54,334,1.91818965246556,GradSchool
Why stop with grad students? Let’s tax student athletes too,,30,331,695.3061294672804,GradSchool
Puns aren't always funny.,,2,332,989.1739766895025,GradSchool
Dartmouth College has settled with nine female current and former students and researchers who filed a class-action lawsuit alleging college administrators turned a blind eye to sexual misconduct by three neuroscience professors,,7,335,69.24807391172482,GradSchool
Why I regret going to grad school (and why I'm not quitting),"I regret going to grad school. I admitted this to a friend for the first time today. I am casually curious about a lot of topics and able to comprehend them, most of all my field of study, but I am honestly not that driven to dive deep in research. For years during and after college I worked in jobs that mostly involved repetitive physical tasks like being a research technician...and I loved it. I loved delivering pizza, I loved being a farm hand, I loved doing little lab tasks I was told to do, I loved being told how to collect field data then doing it. I was great at it too. I knew enough about the science to be good and know why what I did mattered, but mostly I loved daydreaming all day while my hands stayed busy. I have inattentive adhd and am prone to constant daydreaming and mental distraction, but treatment helped me to focus enough to do a quality job.

&#x200B;

I loved my last job for a while two. I was a technician at an agricultural experiment station for years, and I only wanted to leave because the working conditions became unsafe. Instead of making a lateral career move, I decided to try my own research and go to grad school. My classes are interesting when I try really hard, so is my job, but I feel a constant and overwhelming pressure to stay motivated. To vaguely quote Dianne from Bojack, research to me is like this magic eye poster that is the most incredible and beautiful thing when you squint at it just right.....but I'm so tired of squinting. It's what I thought was my dream but I really just like being a technician. I am constantly exhausted by the pressure to perform and will completely go off track without that crushing pressure.

&#x200B;

So why not quit? Because I am halfway there. I believe that I can finish and still get some good from this experience. I will only quit if I feel that I am seriously sacrificing my health to do so. But it's time to finally admit my main motivation to stay in school is for the sake of following through on what I started.",54,325,96.92004150431741,GradSchool
"I used to consider my research boring and irrelevant, Richard Feynman's letter on ""worthwhile problems"" helped me. You don't need to do Nobel caliber work to matter.",,10,331,336.1843817820952,GradSchool
Self discipline is hard...,,19,327,447.51676604135446,GradSchool
MFW a Journal Editor Mistakenly calls me Dr....,,5,324,469.90992576357667,GradSchool
Miss or Mrs?,,18,331,642.0054697450582,GradSchool
Does grad school make anyone else feel like they just don't fucking know how to read?,Hahaha fml,44,327,105.7579003006137,GradSchool
A friendly reminder to back up all your data now,"I just got a new portable hard drive to back up all my stuff. You should do so as well, right now!",61,331,455.8986063191322,GradSchool
If only research presentations were as glamorous as my mom thinks they are.,,43,333,623.0086294672803,GradSchool
So none of my friends are currently in town...,"and my mom is sailing in the atlantic and has no way of being contacted, but I have to tell someone! I passed my candidacy today!! Officially a PhD candidate :) No one to celebrate with (and my advisor put me straight back to work) but I have wine and cheesecake and I'm damned if no one else cares, I'm going to celebrate and I'm telling you /r/GradSchool. As you were...

Edit: I'm completely overwhelmed by how amazing you all are! I'm so grateful for each of you :) Have an amazing day and hope some good comes your way!",29,329,872.9426688191322,GradSchool
"My $80,000 seminar","I'll try to add a positive post to the sub, since sometimes it can get a bit dreary in here.

I'm about to start the fourth year of my PhD and for the last three years, I've been funded through a fellowship that I brought with me into grad school.  My advisor didn't receive the grant he was hoping would pay for me to finish my PhD, so it was looking like I would have to TA for the remainder of my degree.  

Each summer, my advisor sends me to a collaborating lab to accelerate progress on our projects.  Working with other scientist is so much easier when they are down the hall instead of across the country.  This summer, my advisor joined me for a week at the lab I was visiting. On Tuesday he tells me that in two days, I'm going to give an hour long seminar to everyone in the lab (~20 people), showcasing what we've been working on the last year.

I've given several short ~13 min talks at conferences, but never an hour long talk to a group of scientists who specialize in the same narrow field as my project.  To top it off, I only had a couple of days to prepare.  Luckily, I had a short presentation already prepared from a conference a few weeks back, and I was able to expand enough to bring the time up to an hour.  

The talk went very well, with a lot of constructive discussion that has since yielded some promising results.  I found out a few days later, that my talk was actually a pitch for more funding.  My advisor conveniently left that information out.  The head of the lab had come to my talk and was interested enough to make available $80,000 over two years to finish my PhD.  I apparently don't charge as much as Hillary Clinton, but not a bad speaking fee.   ",23,328,1526.2953655783915,GradSchool
I passed my dissertation defense!,It feels completely surreal. There really is an end to the madness!,14,323,217.80512252283592,GradSchool
Just a reminder to those of us working through the weekend:,"Take a second. Breathe. Clear your head. Drink some water. We've made it this far, we can do it :)",31,322,185.30461326357667,GradSchool
The Morning Of Paper Submission [OC],,56,318,526.6488030783914,GradSchool
The many stages of grad school,,24,319,403.8717776154285,GradSchool
"My thesis is due in two months. If I do not submit in this timeframe, my candidature is cancelled and I will be unable to ever get my PhD. I have spent 6 years doing what should have been a 3 year course. I am nowhere near finished writing. I am going to fail.","What the title says. I hated my project - everything went wrong and I wasn't passionate about it. I was so burnt out by the time I finished my experiments I didn't touch my thesis for a year. One year since, I have only written one and a half chapters. I have three more to write in a month. I have been struggling with my mental health quite seriously for the past few years. Whenever I start writing, I cry. This is the most disappointing thing that has ever happened to me. I don't think it's going to be ok. 

EDIT: Thanks everyone - I've been reading your replies as I cried in the bathroom of a 24 hour cafe at 4am, haha. Unfortunately, this is my final final deadline, no more extensions for mental health reasons etc. I'm really worried that I won't be able to pull this together. I'm treating it as if I only have one month but it's already the 5th of April so that month is coming to an end pretty quickly. My self worth is so tied up in having this degree I don't know what I'll do if I don't get it, but at the same time I can't see it working out. Thanks so much for sharing all your stories and encouragement, I'm trying so hard to get this one chapter finished off today so I can work on the other 3.5. I just have to remember it doesn't have to be good, it just has to be done. And even if it gets major revisions I can deal with that when the time comes. ",69,318,194.28836326357668,GradSchool
Who here planned on going into academia but decided not to after experiencing grad school?,"Just out of curiosity, who here thought they wanted to go into academia (maybe as professor) but then decided otherwise once they saw the corruption that is institutionally embedded in academia, and the lack of justice/fairness towards graduate students?

&#x200B;

Spill the tea sis",104,318,255.22339798579887,GradSchool
"Some ""rules to live by"" which have helped make my grad experience more enjoyable:","Since becoming a grad student I have come to some realizations which help with a variety of different common issues which lots of us have, such as imposter syndrome, choosing between offers, research difficulties, etc. I have them written in a notebook, and just reading through them often helps me reframe whatever negative thing is in my head in a more positive light. Here they are in no particular order:

***1) Don't worry about things you can't control.***

If there isn't anything you can do about something, try not to let it occupy your thoughts. If it's a situation that's come about because of a mistake you've made, well, you can learn from it, and you can't control the past either. Usually this type of worrying happens when you are waiting for some sort of outcome in the near future. Once you've figured out all the possible outcomes, have a next course of action planned for each. Once an outcome is reached, it makes it much easier to accept if you already have a plan for what to do next. 

***2) Define what success means to you, don't let others do it for you.***

This starts with setting [SMART](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMART_criteria) goals which you'd like to achieve. These must be goals which are truly your own, they don't have to follow what ""most"" people do. Maybe you are fine with finishing your Master's in three years while most in your program only take two. That's fine! We are all different, we don't have to all follow the same norms. 

***3) Comparing yourself to others is usually not a valuable exercise.***

Everybody has different sets of goals, and different ideas of what success means to them. Remember point 2, only you can define what success means to you. When you're feeling down, you will always think of the people who have achieved your version of success to a greater degree than you, and when you're feeling great, you may think of all the people who haven't achieved your version of success to the degree that you have. To them, your version of success may be completely different from theirs. They got an industry job, because they couldn't find that tenure track position they really wanted. It is useful to get a general sense of what you should be doing in a new environment, but other than that, I don't find it useful. 

***4) High productivity doesn't mean spending long hours at the office.***

""Man, GradStudent spends 10 hours a day at the office every day!"" - we all know this person. Maybe they are okay with it, it is a part of their goals and their version of success. We all want to be productive, but for most of us spending that much time at the office/lab is not going to be the most efficient way to get the maximum amount of stuff done each week. When you're at your office, you should be as dedicated to your work as possible. Try to make your office a space where only work gets done. If you wanna take half an hour off to clear your head, go down to the lounge or library. This helps with the ""I could always be working"" thoughts which you get at home. Set goals for getting stuff done based on tasks, and not hours of the day. ""I'm gunna spend 3 hours doing figures"" vs. ""I am going to finalize figures 4, 5 and 6"". The latter is much more rewarding. Be effective with your time, and if you're just not feeling it that day then, don't force it, tomorrow will be better probably. 

***5) Nothing ever goes perfectly to plan.***

It just doesn't. There are too many unknowns to account for. When things go south, think about your overall goals, and how much they will be affected by whatever happened. Most of the time, it won't stop you from achieving them, and then see point 1. 

It took me a while to really accept these things, but I have become much less stressed just remembering these things and reading them over every day. Hope this helps!",39,319,547.1975993746878,GradSchool
"My first ""jDawgLite et al."" paper was just accepted with minor revisions!","I can't even express how much of a relief this is (and I don't even feel I need to express it on this sub because you cool people understand).

I'm going into my fifth year and it's just felt like constant failure at every step. My lab is a disaster and we haven't published anything since I've been here. I was beginning to feel like our research would just never get published and I would be stuck here for eternity. 

Anyway, just wanted to use this moment to say that there is light at the end of the tunnel! Even though my grad school experience has not been at all what I was hoping for, and my career is not on the track I wanted, I still feel so incredibly proud of myself for finally achieving something despite being in a disastrous environment.",28,317,92.32318965246557,GradSchool
"My last year in the PhD program was excruciatingly painful and difficult thanks to severe depression and anxiety, but I survived. I made a collage to express how overwhelming it felt sometimes. Hang in there everyone!",,27,316,620.5661526154286,GradSchool
Grad Students are Freaking out about the GOP tax plan. They should be,,106,318,705.0881317820952,GradSchool
FINISHED! It is finished!,"I just finished the last paper for my Master's degree, and I have just a profound sense of elation. 

60 pages, 152 footnotes, 40 different sources, 18k words. 

&#x200B;

And I am damn proud of this bad boy.",31,318,316.47478687468777,GradSchool
Real science vs. Movie science,,16,315,577.4595901154285,GradSchool
My feelings being in grad school,,8,315,983.0686178932064,GradSchool
Candidates lining up for an open position like...,,14,316,1285.196245208021,GradSchool
"[Update] I am supposed to complete my Masters in August, but I was just diagnosed with breast cancer at 26.","[Original Post](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/boswv9/i_am_supposed_to_complete_my_masters_in_august/)

I want to thank everyone so much for all the support my last thread had. I wanted to make a thread now that I know more and have a plan in place.

My program and advisors are so incredibly supportive. So are my teammates for my capstone project. While I would love to be 100% for working on my project, the reality is that I will be missing meetings and major decisions occasionally for chemo treatment. The healthy attitude to take is that I no longer have the same level of ownership on this project as I would like, but I'm still able to work on it and participate and that won't effect my grade or ability to graduate. My advisors are letting me set the pace for what I can do and trusting that I will be able to set my limits. In their eyes I have done everything required of me to graduate, and there is no reason I should be derailed. 

There is one more elective I was supposed to take this summer, but there is a lot of flexibility into when and how I complete it. I'll likely plan on graduating late by enrolling in it for fall semester and paying a little bit of extra tuition (but his allows me to stay on my insurance longer which is a major win). 

Communication with my advisors and the various resources on campus has been a lifesaver for me. There are times where I have realized that getting this diagnosis as a student is probably more of a blessing than a curse as my support and resource network is so large compared to if I had just been working in industry. I'm still working on a lot of next steps. Figuring out how long I am postponing my job search is a big one, but I generally feel optimistic that this will be okay. It'll be hard and shitty, but there is so much working in my favor despite it. 

Again, thank you for all the support. To anyone facing analogous or similar ordeals, I wish you the best and would urge you to take advantage of every resource you have. 🌸🌸🌸",11,313,118.26198594876185,GradSchool
I did it!,"I successfully defended my dissertation this morning!

I can finally start having normal nightmares again, not just ones focusing on me failing my defense. Yay! ",30,310,269.7749604857989,GradSchool
"My thesis supervisor printed this off for me when I started my MA. As a doctoral student now, I still keep it in the front of my binder.",,5,312,749.2800530783915,GradSchool
Why I am leaving r/GradSchool,"I have been browsing reddit all morning, I should work on my research now. See you in an hour. 

Edit:I am back. 
",40,309,1238.1773100228359,GradSchool
"Hey all, I was pointed in this sub's direction from r/cooking. My new blog ""Fuck It, I'm Not Cooking"" is dedicated to eating well, while depressed, and dead broke, literally without cooking for yourself.","So, I'm an undergrad myself, but I live with a few of y'all and being pretty fucking depressed myself, I totally get how insanely hard it is to eat properly. Between work, study, financial strain and mental illness, nobody can be fucked cooking a decent meal. Packet ramen and a bag of crisps counts as dinner, yeah? Yeah. Well, I made a blog dedicated to recipes that are equally or less difficult to make than packet ramen, and are a loooot healthier for you.

Anyway, here's the link: https://missmedlandtaylor.com/fuckcooking/

Let me know what you think, subscribing is super easy (sign up at the bottom of the page, and the recipes will literally be emailed to you) and I will gladly become more active in this sub if you need help/motivation/inspiration/somebody who gets the whole barely-functional-depression gig. I'm at rock fucking bottom over here, just trying to get better, and drag who I can up with me.

Cheers folks, much love.",24,306,726.3846364117248,GradSchool
Grad school,,13,308,1409.2233632635766,GradSchool
Grad school has made me feel like Jekyl and Hyde.,"One minute, I am incredibly excited to teach, help students, read their work, lecture, etc. The next, it sounds dreadful, tedious, tiresome, intimidating. I hate writing, then I love it. I hate research, then I love it. 
The experience of grad school has made it difficult for me to really understand my priorities and desires. It's as if I'm two different people, simultaneously enjoying and loathing every experience I've had.

Is this normal?",32,306,61.89296974505815,GradSchool
Professor kissed me and I don’t know what to do,"Update: per university protocol, I filled out a sexual harassment form. Will keep you all posted if something comes of it. 

So, I am a 24F who just finished her masters. My program involves a third year teaching fellowship following the completion of the degree, so while I’m technically no longer a student, I’m still in the program and am now an employee of my school.

This summer, I’ve been working at an academic summer camp on a different campus, and one of my graduate school professors (we’ll call him John; he’s a 67M) also lives here year-round; he just flies to the city where he teaches every week. An expensive and senseless commute, but anyway...I ran into him in town last week and he said if I had a day off we should get together for dinner. I immediately accepted; I’ve had dinner alone with John twice before, as he always takes out the grad students one-on-one. As first-years, my female friends and I initially found his invitations strange, but we ultimately decided he was harmless. We’d all been out with him alone and nothing strange had ever happened. He’s a very talkative guy who usually spent the first twenty minutes of class asking us about our lives, so we decided he was just really friendly.

So, a few nights ago we had dinner. It was fine, same as usual: he asked a few questions about my summer but mostly talked about himself. He’s always been this way—a bit self-obsessed and so garrulous it’s hard to get a word in during conversation. We mostly talked about the grad program and our respective summer travels abroad. Innocent conversation, nothing weird.

When we left, we walked down the sidewalk together until we had to go in different directions. I thanked him for dinner, moved to turn around, and he surprised me by pulling me into a hug and giving me a long, loud kiss on the cheek. At first I thought it was kind of funny, maybe just a European affectation he decided to use since we’d been talking about travel, but after a few minutes I began to feel kind of grossed out. I’m not especially close to this professor. I had two classes with him and that’s it. I tried to imagine the scenario with different people, with one of my other male professors or with me and one of my male students, and it seemed to me that what happened was wildly inappropriate. John has never done anything like that in the city where our university is, not to me or any of the girls in my cohort, so I feel like being far away made him bold. He knew no one else was around and he could get away with crossing some boundaries.

Am I overthinking this? Was he just saying goodbye? I’ve certainly had people kiss me on the cheek as a greeting, but they’ve all been older females and it’s always been just a quick peck, never a loud, wet smooch. And it’s usually not embarrassing; there were people around, and as I walked away they definitely gave me weird looks. My friends in my cohort said John definitely crossed a line and that if I want to reach out to him and say what he did was not okay, that would be totally reasonable. My mom, who can sometimes have old fashioned attitudes about assault and harassment, was 100% on my side and said he was taking advantage of me. 

So. I’m not sure where to go from here. If my program were actually over, I’d just let it go, but I’m going to be teaching there another year and will be around this professor at department events. I’ll definitely see him less than usual, but that’s not the point. Our program is predominantly female, and I can’t help but wonder if I ought to say something to somebody else in power. But then I’d feel embarrassed—it’s not like he did anything overtly sexual. But at the same time, I’ve been working through some childhood sexual abuse stuff this past year and am at a point where anyone even touching me is upsetting. Obviously John couldn’t have known this, but I’m worried that if I complain and say I was genuinely upset by this incident, that whoever handles the incident will want to know why I was so upset by what could’ve just been an overly zealous goodbye.

I have no idea what to do. I’ve felt nauseated ever since it happened and the more I think about it, the madder I get. If anyone has any advice, please let me know.

Edit: want to make it clear that before this incident, the professor had not ever hugged me before, so that wasn’t something we ever did.

Another edit: I won’t be back on campus until late August.",87,312,94.4925878006137,GradSchool
UPDATE: Submitted a formal grievance against my adviser,"[https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/bxxo8u/submitted\_a\_formal\_grievance\_against\_my\_adviser/](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/bxxo8u/submitted_a_formal_grievance_against_my_adviser/)  


So here's an update on my situation. I submitted a 15 page grievance letter. I met with the dean of my school about two weeks ago and had a long discussion about where I am in the program and what I want to do about my grievance. Basically they pushed that I should withdraw the grievance on the condition they investigate the situation and help me graduate. The main reason being my adviser is retiring so any action against him is kinda moot.   


Yesterday I got an E-mail updating the situation. The dean has interview members of my committee and the department. He is in agreement that my adviser should be removed as chair of my committee and I should end direct communication with him. The dean is going to be a replacement chair for now. I'm going to run experiments for another two months or so then start to write. They're putting together a task force of a couple of professors to help me put together a dissertation, even if its nothing but negative results.   


So I'm now on track to graduate with no results and no publications. I've spend more time working the politics of my department than I have doing experiments. It's very clear that not just my adviser, but the department itself is broken and the chair of the department is working hard not to fix it, but sweep everything under the rug. I thought that getting School of Graduate Studies involved would change things, but I didn't realize how easily faculty can ignore someone from another school. Getting the dean involved and filing a formal grievance really opened things up.",18,312,111.3394165043174,GradSchool
"Houston, we have a draft.","I just finished a complete rough draft of my dissertation. I am absolutely dumbfounded. It is in no way even close to being done, and it’s probably pretty close to incoherent (I haven’t read through it yet), but here we are. My advisor asked for a rough draft by February 1, so I have until then to revise it before he looks at it. I can’t believe it. 

I just had to tell someone.",23,309,270.72020354135446,GradSchool
"How do you deal with feeling that you're not going to be an ""outstanding"" grad student?","Some of us win awards/fellowship. Some of us work on projects that end up with high impact. Some of us get publicity for something they worked on. Some of us don't. 

In this very competitive environment where you are mostly judged by how many papers you publish and fellowships/grants you receive, how do you just shut down this if you are just another regular student who's making progress but not necessarily receiving accolades.",95,305,245.23711326357665,GradSchool
Defending tomorrow. Need some love,"UPDATE: I passed y’all! Thank you for all the kind words and support. I love you Reddit!

Just here to lament. Long story short, was supposed to defend last May. PI pulled my defense last minute for a number of reasons. Later found out he wanted data for a high impact paper. I had already moved for a new job, so I have to move back, find short-term housing, and complete his lab work (all out of my own pocket since I was no longer getting paid/funded). Ended up not submitting the paper with the new data anyways. Almost a year later, it’s finally here again. Still waiting for the other shoe to drop, but I hope after tomorrow I can finally earn my PhD! Send some love please!",38,307,266.01026141172485,GradSchool
TFW the 21 books and 37 articles you requested through interlibrary loan all arrive at the same time,https://i.redd.it/9nhbe0ke8r611.jpg,22,309,474.3447753006137,GradSchool
My thesis is submitted!!!!! Wh00p!!!,,47,305,977.0513146524655,GradSchool
Want to see your director of graduate studies squirm? Ask them about these career statistics! [Biology] / [Biomedical] / [STEM],"Hi Dr. DGS, thanks for taking time to meet with me :)

I'm really looking forward to graduating with a PhD in [*insert biomedical field here*]. Now, we both know I'm probably not cut out for staying in academia, after all, only [10%](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/352/6286/663) of biological or life science PhDs land a tenure-track job within 5 years of graduation. And let's be honest, [*insert university name here*] isn't one of the top 25% of schools, which together account for [71-86%](https://advances.sciencemag.org/content/1/1/e1400005) of all new faculty. 

I *could* do a postdoc, but do I really want to work [50+](https://academic.oup.com/bioscience/article/63/4/245/253174)  hours / week to get paid [less](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-00587-y) than a new [college graduate](https://money.cnn.com/2018/05/14/pf/college/class-of-2018-starting-salary/index.html) even though I'll be [~9](https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/2018/nsf18304/datatables/tab27.htm) years older than said college grad? I mean, I definitely would if there were data that showed doing a postdoc would help my career in the private sector, but --*whoops!*

[*accidentally drop studies (1-3) showing there isn’t any evidence a postdoc will actually benefit seekers of non-academic jobs.*]

I mean what's gonna happen? It's not like if I do a postdoc, like most bio PhDs will, and then go into industry, I'll end up making [$12,000](https://www.nature.com/articles/nbt.3766)  per year less than if I had just skipped the postdoc altogether? Right?

And do you think once I've got my PhD, and I'm making [~$37,000](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/350/6266/1367), will that be more or less than the salary of someone who skipped grad school all together and just got a bachelors in [philosophy?](https://www.payscale.com/college-salary-report/majors-that-pay-you-back/bachelors/page/8?orderBy=EarlyCareerPay&ascending=false) How about if I went into industry ([~$48,000/yr](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/sci/suppl/2015/12/09/350.6266.1367.DC1/aac5949_Zolas-SM.pdf)), would that still be less than the median for a new college graduate ([~$50,000](https://money.cnn.com/2018/05/14/pf/college/class-of-2018-starting-salary/index.html))? Should I be heartened to think that eventually a [biology PhD working the private sector](https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/2018/nsf18304/datatables/tab48.htm) will make more than [someone with a bachelors](https://data.bls.gov/PDQWeb/le) or should I keep in mind that data from middle aged workers all come from a market where PhDs were rare and can't adjust for the last several decades of record PhD production?

Hm, I guess I could always teach... which would probably mean adjunct status, since they teach [most](https://www.forbes.com/sites/noodleeducation/2015/05/28/more-than-half-of-college-faculty-are-adjuncts-should-you-care/) of the courses nowadays. If I went that route, I'd make about $25-40K/yr with little to no benefits, or I guess you could say: it would pay better to teach high school than college, which is kinda weird, but okay.

But gosh, I just love research! Maybe I should go private sector. I sure hope sticking with research doesn't mean I can expect to earn [less](https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/pdf/10.1287/mnsc.1040.0241). And how many private sector bio PhDs get to actually stick with research anyway? Would you say the proportion of biomedical PhDs that stay in some form of research in the private sector is between 45-72% like in [this](https://www.nature.com/articles/nbt.3766) study? Or less than 10% like in [this](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/350/6266/1367) one? Because getting to pursue my (employer's) research interests was sort of central to the whole idea of getting a PhD in the first place!

I just can't wait to really start my career! I bet you felt the same way back when more NIH funding went to “early-career” researchers (≤ 40 years old) compared to researchers ≥ 50 years old at a ratio of greater than 10. [*insert wry chuckle here*] Of course, nowadays that ratio has totally flipped and ten times more money goes to the older researchers. Maybe that's why some [74%](http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2013/06/17/data-suggest-baby-boomer-faculty-are-putting-retirement) of professors aged 49-67 plan to delay retirement past age 65 or never retire at all. I mean, do you think if you graphed the age distribution of NIH PIs from [1980 to 2010](https://nexus.od.nih.gov/all/2012/02/13/age-distribution-of-nih-principal-investigators-and-medical-school-faculty/) you'd actually be able to *see* the Baby Boomers get hold of the funding and then just hoard it? Heck, I bet there are more researchers with a major grant [75 years and older than there are 33 years or less](https://twitter.com/aarmey/status/565674331792244737)! No seriously, wanna bet? Let's put some money down; my stipend is paltry and I want to remember what meat tastes like.

I sure am glad I was one of the lucky [30%](http://www.nature.com/naturejobs/science/articles/10.1038/nj7574-597a) of American grad students to report obtaining useful career advice from their institutions and not one of those other poor souls enmeshed in an exploitative pyramid scheme where the half-life of a researcher is only [5 years](https://www.pnas.org/content/early/2018/12/05/1800478115) and it doesn't even matter how much you produce. Ha! Publish and still perish! Am I right?

Cheers!

[1] http://science.sciencemag.org/content/352/6286/663

[2] https://www.nature.com/articles/nbt.3766

[3] https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048733318302312#bib0465",99,301,91.20940493024334,GradSchool
"Twitter thread - ""So I broke down my tax bill under Trump's ""Cut Cut Cut"" proposal. My taxes won't be cut. My tax bill will quadruple.""",,125,302,708.9558632635767,GradSchool
Dissertation writing flow chart.,,16,304,809.4445553932062,GradSchool
Is there a Marie Kondo method for organizing research articles?,What are your subfolders in mendeley or endnote?,76,301,226.9616618746878,GradSchool
How to begin your next thesis chapter,,12,303,1020.0415229857988,GradSchool
UIC Graduate Workers Begin Indefinite Strike for a Fair Contract,,38,304,209.97234474505814,GradSchool
Often accurate,,6,298,425.8734095598729,GradSchool
I’m a TA and one of my favorite students sent me a nice email after the final,"I have been a TA for most of grad school, and it’s not always the most pleasant task. I got a very sweet email from one of the students. She worked really hard to learn the material and was always at my office hours. Here it is:

Hi Megan,

I just want to say thank you for your time and help during the quarter.
I could not have done it without you!

I truly appreciate for your help and hope to see you again :)

Best,
(Student’s name)

",9,300,308.9328308561693,GradSchool
Finally a PhD candidate!,"After YEARS of my advisor telling me casually to prepare for my candidacy exam (and 3 cancellations of a scheduled exam days before), I have finally successfully passed my candidacy exam and submitted paperwork! After 5 years in grad school I can finally say I'm a PhD candidate. For most people, the difference between PhD student and PhD candidate is minimal, but I know this community understands how important that is as a milestone. 

I've got less than a year left (due to funding/advisor) to finish up and defend. ",43,298,311.27449752283593,GradSchool
My First First Authorship!,"My first first authorship publication just came out! I posted about it on Facebook, but I guess people were too busy having babies to be super excited for me. 

Will you guys be excited for me? Thanks. :)

UPDATE: Check it out! 
 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/29455292/",46,300,590.6720322450582,GradSchool
Quitting... and it Feels Amazing!,"I have been in a serious depressed state of mind for the last 6 months basically, and these past couple weeks has put me over the edge. I have decided to just leave with a masters degree and find a job in industry. This is just a friendly reminder that your mental health is more important than how many papers you publish, that's just a fact.

&#x200B;

It's ok to not finish your PhD. You are not any less of a person for stepping away and starting a new chapter.  My biggest fear for leaving is what people would say about me or how they would look at me differently, but guess what...NOBODY CARES and you should do what you want to do and not be miserable.

&#x200B;

Cheers",32,297,157.9749026154285,GradSchool
Does anyone else feel this?,To those in graduate school: do you ever feel like you're not doing enough work even though you worked all day? ,58,298,360.8396942820952,GradSchool
Anyone else?,,58,298,972.8581549302434,GradSchool
SUCCESSFULLY DEFEND!,"I successfully defended my master's thesis today. After 2 years and at one point having my original thesis scooped I finally finished.

Now I can finally take a vacation.

#WOOT",18,298,427.96955539320635,GradSchool
My girlfriend is very supportive of me but has no idea what I actually do. We exchange texts like this a lot. I thought this one was funny.,,34,298,836.9450067820952,GradSchool
When I round up my students' final grades,,26,294,1253.1844280783914,GradSchool
I passed my candidacy exam!,It’s over! I wanted to send encouragement to everyone else stressed and struggling through. I’m spending the rest of the day out of the lab,22,299,280.0769165043174,GradSchool
Defending my Master's thesis in 2 hours,"And the 17-year education grind will finally be over at the age of 23. I am so terrified and excited!

Update: It went super well, I got an A for the thesis and am graduating cum laude in 13 days!!! Thank you all sweet people for the good wishes, may you all have a wonderful summer and success in everything you do! 💛☀️",22,296,130.6646479857989,GradSchool
I've been bamboozled.,,25,297,905.8319396524656,GradSchool
"Defended my thesis, got a paper accepted (outright) in a Nature Publishing Journal, offered a post-doc position that is funded by more than one PI, all in the same day. Never despair.","I entered grad school in 2007. It's been 8 years. The last year or two, I worked hard, things worked out.

It is easy to despair. It is hard to be optimistic. Keep up the momentum, all the best to every single one of you. ",31,292,1643.943733633947,GradSchool
Asked for an extension on an assignment for the first time ever. It was granted immediately and the relief is palpable.,"The first semester of grad school is as good a time as any for health problems to crop up, right?

Last night I was given an emergency appointment with a neurologist for this morning and have reason to believe that even after the appointment I will have quite a lot on my mind.

Thankfully I only have one final left but I’m not too worried about that. I do, however, have a final paper for my mandatory research ethics course due that is worth 35% of my grade.

I’m prideful to a fault so it took a lot to e-mail my professors explaining some about my appointment today and that I might not be able to finish the final page or two and polish it all off by the due date. I sent them my paper in its current form, which is six out of eight pages...

And they went above and beyond by granting me until January 31st. I don’t even want to spend that long on it and hope to have it done by next week but it truly feels like such a weight has been lifted off of my shoulders.

One of the hardest things for me in grad school is going to be learning to ask for help so I am very proud of myself for reaching out and extremely grateful that they responded so kindly.",26,295,307.41917344876185,GradSchool
PSA: You have until April 15th to make a decision! Don't let programs strong arm you into a decision you don't want to make!,"Congratulations on your admission into graduate school! Now that you have an offer in hand, please be aware of your rights! 

Most major graduate programs are subject to the April 15 Resolution (https://cgsnet.org/april-15-resolution)! If you have been offered funding of any kind, they cannot rescind the offer before April 15th. Many professors and program directors will either be unaware of (or willingly ignoring) this rule. In doing so, they undermine other programs and put you in a bad situation.

As a graduate student, you will be in a position very low on the totem pole for quite a while. It is important that we, together as grad students, do not let those above us beat us around anymore than they already do. If a program refuses to stand by the April 15 Resolution, please contact the departments relevant deans so that others will not be taken advantage of in the future. And you probably don't want to be involved with such a program anyway.

P. S. Feel free to reach out if you need any additional advice regarding pressure to make a decision from a program. I'd be happy to help where I can.

Edit: Clarified that this applies to funding offers. A list of universities this applies to can be found on the linked site. ",22,291,237.88813178209517,GradSchool
Hungover as hell today because passed my defense yesterday!,"What the title says. What a ride it's been. Been posting and lurking on and off on this sub for some time, and it really helped me feel not so alone with the inevitable impostor syndrome. 

My public seminar went well, people seemed to enjoy. The defense was TOUGH, but really now that I look back on it, seems my committee didn't actually have answers to the questions and only wanted to see me squirm! Apparently I squirmed enough to pass. And now last night is hitting me hard today. ",15,290,586.1950415043174,GradSchool
Recently finished my PhD! Here's my grad school experience...in memes!,,40,297,1351.9950762265396,GradSchool
"As More Universities 'Ditch' Elsevier, Sci-Hub Blossoms",,46,295,223.9840692820952,GradSchool
Something completely different - I received funding to create the world's first PhD quilt! It's a visual and tactile representation of the diversity of research undertaken at my university.,"[The quilt](https://i.redd.it/2c7tt46i7lv21.jpg).


**You can see close ups of each block [here](https://www.kent.ac.uk/graduateschool/news/pgexperience.html).** If you click on the block it will take you to a research summary from each PhD student.



# The research behind each block

|    |     |     |
|:------------:|:------------:|:------------:|
| DNA is well known to self-assemble to form the iconic double helix structure; peptides also self-assemble into beta sheets and alpha helices which form the foundation of protein structure. We aim to combine these two moieties in the search for new materials with properties which are as yet unseen outside of nature.|      The mission of the Graduate School is to lead and champion the strategic development of provision for graduate education and research at the University of Kent.|     Many wildlife species like the pangolin are threatened by the wildlife trade. I try to figure out how we can get people to stop buying wildlife products such as rhino horn or pangolin scales.     
| Barred grass snakesare widespread throughout the UK, being a familiar sight in many gardens. I'm working to understand the population dynamics of the UK's largest snake.|   I aim to examine how the Transatlantic alliance through the NATO has responded to the Arab spring, particularly to the security threats that emanated from it, as well as what this response is telling us about the future of the Transatlantic security community in the face of this chaos.|     Cosmetics are often overlooked as a form of forensic trace evidence. I want to see how reliably I can discriminate between cosmetic foundation samples, using Raman microspectroscopy.     
| I map how wildlife and people use Mount Kenya and what the future could look like, using these to help understand how different parties would be affected by future environmental changes.| Illegal wildlife trade is increasingly moving online, but for enforcement, identifying these products is like finding a needle in a haystack. I intend to develop tools that will help automatically identify elephant ivory being sold from the images used to advertise them.|  There is a long history that thinks of practices of needlework like quilting in reductive binary categories of traditional vs subversive, or the feminine vs the feminist. My research tries to complicate these binaries by focusing on needlework practices as a form of meaning-making in personal and collective forms of feminist activism.   
|  Synthetic Selection of Enhanced Therapeutic Aptamers. The project will develop a novel method for the discovery of modifications which increase aptamer binding efficacy. The known aptamer that will be modified binds to EGFR, which in cancer cells is the protein that causes cell growth and division.|   Drawing upon the poetic language of Melville’s iconic novel Moby Dick, I aim to transform his work into a prose poetry collection utilising found poetry techniques and my own experiences with the sea.|   The Tizard Centre is the leading UK academic group working in learning disability and community care. The Centre is named after Professor Jack Tizard (1919-1979) in recognition of his contribution to development of community care.  


# Background to the quilt.

I wanted to provide an opportunity for PhD students to explore alternative ways of communicating their research. I've been quilting for a few years, and create [textile portraits](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5bd9b39efcf7fdd57b545dc9/5bd9b7bcaa4a9938caf16d5f/5bd9f1e870a6adca41db6e31/1541009948825/IMG_20181024_154307.jpg?format=1000w) of endangered species to help raise awareness and funds for them. I've found that quilting is both a really fun pastime, and a great way to engage different people in my work.

I put on workshops where PhD students could create a quilt block that represented the core concepts of their research, then took them away and sewed them up into this!",26,289,167.12578224505813,GradSchool
I got an A in a class I thought I was going to fail!!,"Just wrapped up my first semester of graduate school in a new field (psychology to statistics) and I finally got my grades and found out I not only passed, but I got A’s!! Still can’t quite believe it.

I’m just so excited and felt the need to share, because I started off the semester seriously struggling.

I was dealing with really bad anxiety and imposter syndrome all semester and thought that maybe I wasn’t cut out for the program, but I decided I would stick it through unless they failed me out and kicked me out, haha. 

To anybody who is questioning whether or not they deserve to be here, you do. You can do it. 

Cheers and happy holidays everyone. ♥️

Edit: spelling error ",38,293,301.29711326357665,GradSchool
Best writing advice for social sciences,,13,294,487.4493007635766,GradSchool
NSF graduate fellowships disproportionately go to students at a few top schools,,44,290,49.40700909691,GradSchool
Got my first A in grad school!,"My program is the type where it's hard to fail/get lower than a C-, but most people get B's. No expectations for or easy A's.  So this is special for me and wanted to share!

EDIT: Thank you everyone!!!

EDIT 2: Final grades were an A, A-, and B! I'm at home for the holidays so I told my parents my grades (don't normally do that) and had to convince my mom that I'm not in high school / college, I'm not unhappy about the B . . ",28,293,300.1844396524656,GradSchool
And so it starts. September.,,39,288,410.989347059873,GradSchool
"In three hours I'm defending my thesis, see you on the other side!","Report is done, champagne is ready, family is in town, nerves are through the roof, let's do this!

Edit: https://youtu.be/04854XqcfCY

Officially made this thesis my bitch.

Thanks all! ",25,287,495.56086326357666,GradSchool
"Make science PhDs more than just a training path for academia: Science PhD programmes cater almost exclusively to students bound for academia, but they don’t have to",,25,290,42.83668502283593,GradSchool
"Late 20s, and taking my research abroad for a year.",,18,292,442.5654118746878,GradSchool
"My school's ad for a writing workshop is incredibly depressing, yet accurate.",,18,287,1700.2215229857989,GradSchool
JUST PASSED MASTER’S DEFENSE,"I had never been more nervous for a presentation in my life. But, thank God, it’s finished. 

I did not think this day would come. If you’re struggiling right now, just know it’s possible. Time flies and before you know it, you’re done!",16,284,168.09419659691002,GradSchool
How do you tell if you have impostor syndrome versus your research is actual trash,"I'm kinda worried I somehow managed to make it through undergrad doing very mediocre work, and somehow get into grad school. I really love research, but I also just feel like I suck at it. I totally messed up a major part of my senior thesis because I misunderstood a key concept and calculated something that fed into the core idea of my research wrong. I don't know how recalculating it will change my results, but I just feel so stupid that I did this wrong (and that I didn't question the way I was doing it because once my advisor realized it, it seemed like an obvious mistake).

So at what point should I be concerned that maybe I'm just bad at research, even if I like it. I know everyone says not to fall prey to impostor syndrome, but what if I'm just legitimately bad at this.

Edit: Thank you everyone for the support - it means a lot :)",47,285,186.96329381913222,GradSchool
Grad School Work/Life Balance?,,29,288,722.1346479857989,GradSchool
"Dissertation. Is. Finished. Good God. 72,384 words. I had to tell someone, and I knew you guys/girls would understand. (Ph.D. English Lit.)",,61,288,2303.232483633947,GradSchool
Defending my PhD in 7 hours,"Hey folks. Currently 2:10am. Can’t sleep. My
PhD defense is at 9:15am-12:30pm. Lecture and examination. 

Helllpppp! How do I sleep ???

EDIT: Took a melatonin supplement at 2:15. Manage to get about 4 hours. Time is now 7:20 and starting my morning return. I'll come for another edit if there's good news later!

EDIT 2: I PASSED! Two of the four examiners complimented me on the fact that my dissertation looks like it had been proofread more than once. About 70% of the questions were speculative, asking ""what I would do next"" which is apparently code for ""we think your studies are just fine!"". Around 30% of the questions were clarifying details and testing my knowledge. If I didn't know the answer, I was honest but referred to where I would look to find the answer. Overall it was great. Examiners weren't easy but they were very reasonable. Overall great learning experience. And now I am Dr! It is possible to finish! Now to celebrate with my department and family.",33,287,172.70427761542854,GradSchool
"Grad Students' Tuition Waivers Will Remain Untaxed, After All",,13,285,666.1941503006137,GradSchool
Shamelessly adapted from another sub:,,15,287,756.3545322450581,GradSchool
"I got this rejection letter from Stanford. That's their mouse on it, not mine.",,45,287,997.1770322450582,GradSchool
For all the new students,"As the start of the semester for many new grad students is fast approaching or has just begun I want to take a few moments to wish you all the very best over the next several years. Over your time in your respective programs you will be tested and pushed in a way that you may never have been before, and there will surely be times when you feel like you are not even remotely qualified to keep going. But remember that you were chosen out of all the other candidates for your program because of your unique qualifications and skills and that you, not your mentor, not reviewer number 2, and not the grumpy fourth member of your committee are the only expert on your thesis in the world. Have confidence in your knowledge, skills, path and most importantly in yourself. Never be afraid to challenge those that say you are wrong and equally never be afraid to ask for help. Everyone in this sub knows the struggles and is always here to answer questions, give encouragement when you're down, champion your accomplishments and be a listening ear when you need to vent. I look forward to seeing all the accomplishments this class will ultimately have and see the impact it has on the world because in a matter of years you will have provided the world with a piece of information that currently isn't out there. Again I wish each and everyone of you the very best as you start this incredible journey and hope that this post can be something you can look back on if you ever are feeling lost or discouraged.",22,285,54.33902298579889,GradSchool
It's okay if you didn't get NSF GRFP.,"You and your work are still valuable. This is not a reflection of your worth. Academia is full of rejection, but I get this one hurts because it's big and early.

I didn't get NSF GRFP. In fact, one reviewer said I had a ""poor record from a state school."" (This taught me a lot about how to take criticism, and how some people understand prestige. I had a 3.3 overall and a 3.9 in my field. I went to a good school I could afford). I'm pretty sure I'm turning out okay. I did, however, send my application to other funding mechanisms and still got grants out of it.

Obviously, congratulations to those you received it! Don't let anyone make you feel bad for having gotten it either. I've seen people get very jealous over this win, especially if you're in a department that competes for funding. Don't be competitive with your peers; we're all doing the best we can out here in grad school, which is a weird situation in the first place.",105,287,188.92036557839148,GradSchool
Finally a writing victory! I wrote a 25 page draft in 5 days!,"I have had a really tough time writing my dissertation, but this week I fell into a groove and got a lot of work done. I feel energized and excited for the next chapter. Its about time things go well!",29,282,269.10269196728035,GradSchool
My PI didn't think it was as funny as I did...,,29,285,1659.2560253006138,GradSchool
Editing a manuscript with my PI,,40,282,1680.1849952080213,GradSchool
Marked ~100 intro physics assignments today. Good lord is it a depressing job.,"There are two kinds of students I love:

1. The people who do everything mostly correctly, with neat handwriting and a clearly laid-out assignment

2. The people who don't bother to hand anything in

Everyone else can go to (varying levels of) hell. 

 - Graphs that look like they were drawn with their feet while their eyes were shut. 

 - Pages stapled upside down and out of order. 

 - Just random tidbits of an answer without any actual words to describe what's going on, invariably always *really* close to the correct answer but not the actual correct answer. 

 - Randomly switching conventions or signs. Or both.

 - Instead of putting the actual units, just writing ""units"" after the number. 

 - Forget about significant figures, everything is to the nearest whole number.

 - Throwing out the notion of writing left to right and top to bottom, and instead just slotting parts of the solution into any space on the page. 

I feel pretty slighted that I obviously spend more time marking some people's assignments than they spend working on them or writing them. All so that they could earn 0.05% towards their final grade. But now I know why they pay us so much: if they paid any less, no one would do it. ",97,284,210.45353687468779,GradSchool
A personal account of a few changes I made to go from serious PhD-related anxiety & depression to a more manageable situation,"I thought I'd share my experience going from a state of extremely poor mental health, and terrible relationship with my PhD, to a much better existence, in case it's helpful to any other grad students out there going through what I went through.

**About me:** I'm about half way through a PhD in science at one of those best-of-the-best universities that appear in the top 10 global rankings every year. Part of my programme expects me to relocate to a foreign lab for around 12 months, and I'm in the middle of that period right now.

Until quite recently, I was suffering from serious, persistent PhD-related anxiety and didn't know a way out. I only saw 3 options: quit my PhD (nope to that), suicide (double nope to that), or work enough to finish. Obviously, work was the best solution, but I found that difficult for the following reasons:

* Some gaps in my technical knowledge: I knew what I was supposed to do, but not how to get my code to do it.

* The assumption that I really *should* already know all the above technical stuff, so felt that asking about it was a stupid question.

* The only people who I felt had a responsibility to answer my stupid questions (supervisors, etc) are non-technical teaching types/people with expertise elsewhere who don't know how my code is supposed to work anyway.

* The only people who would really know how to solve my problems were at other institutions worldwide, who I could have contacted in principle, but who in practice I didn't want to bother with my stupid questions.

* I happened to be the only researcher from my institution deployed to the foreign lab at the time, giving me a whole office to myself. This seemed great initially, but it soon resulted in crushing isolation. Gone were the days when I could roll over to one of my more senior peers and ask a quick question.

* Additionally, no one in my office = no need to maintain good attendance. I went in late, often not at all, and when faced with a brick wall of code I couldn't progress through, I procrastinated (the usual: Reddit, Facebook, Reddit, Imgur, Reddit, YouTube, Reddit and Reddit).

* I suffered in silence for so long and got so far behind that asking about a basic problem would mean admitting I had done next to nothing for the past few weeks/months, making it even harder for me to consider asking for help.

* My supervisor is pretty hands-off (and back in my home country), so I only have to give an update every couple months to my home department via videoconference. Each time I'd have 1-2 weeks warning to prepare a talk, so I'd panic, contemplate self-injury to get out of it, and scrape together maybe 25% of what I should have done in order to have **something** to show and survive the talk.

* This is quite specific to me, but I have a love-hate relationship with food. I used to be obese, but I lost around 35 lbs in my late teens through diligent diet and exercise and achieved a healthy weight (in fact IMHO I looked pretty good), which I maintained throughout undergrad despite frequently failing to prevent myself binge eating. However, during this period of several months of increased PhD-anxiety, almost every day I would go home defeated, stop by the supermarket and buy an absurd quantity of junk food. I ate my feelings because I just didn't have the willpower not to. A typical day's haul might be: sharing-size bag of Doritos, 3x100g chocolate bars and a sack of gummy candy, which I'd consume entirely between the hours of 7pm and midnight while browsing the internet. This obviously affected my weight, sleep cycle, and self-esteem terribly.

Here's a list of things, big and small, that I did (knowingly and unknowingly) to improve my situation.

**I bought an alarm clock**

This stopped me using my phone as an alarm, and stopped me getting trapped in the ""morning scroll"" in bed.

Before: my alarm would go off at 8, I would snooze it repeatedly for an hour, then the guilt would set in, but not wanting to face the grim prospect of another day at the office doing nothing, I would put it off by browsing the internet in bed for a couple of hours. Eventually I'd go into the office around lunchtime, on a good day. On a bad day I'd just ""work from home"" i.e. procrastinate at home instead of in the office.

After: my alarm goes off at 8, my phone is charging near my other everyday carry items, ready for me to get dressed. I never go back to sleep (sometimes I have a couple of 5 minute snoozes to shake the sleep out of my eyes and stretch before getting up). I get ready and leave my apartment within an hour. I have cultivated a habit of not unlocking my phone until I'm at the bus stop on the way to the office, and I check messages/news during the 20-30 minute ride.

**I uninstalled all social media apps from my phone**

Okay so I kept the various messaging apps to keep in touch with friends and family, but everything else had to go. Facebook, Reddit, YouTube and Imgur were the worst offenders, particularly when they referred me to some news on current events. Inevitably I would end up reading about the latest governmental idiocy or some massive socio-economic problem that would seem so intractible and it would depress me too much. I would burn up my mental energy trying to process how I felt about the issue and trying to solve it, when economics and politics are so much more insoluble than the scientific problems I'm trained to solve. Besides depressing news, I unsubscribed from several depressing/nihilistic meme pages whose content made me feel validated, but which were ultimately reinforcing my depression and anxiety.

Furthermore, the kind of content I consumed though these platforms was in very small, easily digestible chunks. I would say to myself ""just one more swipe"", ""just one more article"" and waste hours because I couldn't pull myself away. Instead, I started reading eBooks on my phone. This means I can still have entertainment for 10 mins here and there, but it's not too hard to tear myself away because the book is a longer term project and it'll still be there when I come back. I'm also getting through many more books (about 1 every 2 weeks) this way.

I still surf the web pretty freely in the evenings, but on a desktop with better things to do (TV/movies/gaming), so my addiction has been curbed.

**I sorted out my diet**

For years, I've found it helpful to treat my food problems like alcoholism. A small piece of chocolate, candy or other sugar can make me fall off the wagon completely and get into a spiral of regular binge eating, so I avoid it as much as possible. The first few days are the hardest, but eventually my low-carb/complex-carb diet becomes perfectly comfortable, until my next slip-up. Three things that made this easier were:

1) Chugging a whey protein shake after breakfast each morning, which kills any genuine hunger I have for most of the day.

2) Deciding I would eat lunch every day from the office cafeteria (instead of a packed lunch), knowing the only thing I could afford to eat every day was the salad bar with cold meats. This reduced the amount of grocery shopping I had to do and so reduced my exposure to junk food.

3) Using a calorie-counter app on my phone to gamify eating and let my OCD-but-not-actually-OCD help me to meet the calorie targets each day.

Before: fat as hell, getting fatter, almost obese again, hating myself, not wanting to exercise because I feel terrible.

After: back to a healthy weight, feeling good, exercising, sleeping much better. Incidentally, the tastiest thing I eat every day is my cereal in the morning, which is an additional motivating factor to get out of bed because I look forward to that breakfast treat.

**I realised my friends were imposters too**

We all know that PhD students suffer from imposter syndrome, particularly when things aren't going well. I defined ""imposter"" to mean ""struggling with work, maybe failing a lot of the time, but pretending to be successful so no one knows"". I realised that by this definition, I was indistinguishable from all my friends, who I thought had their shit together. For all they knew, I had my shit together too, because I never let on how much I was suffering. However when I paid attention I realised (from small throwaway comments and jokes) that everyone has productivity issues:

Friend A half-jokes that he spends too much time on Reddit (I know that feel)

Friend B says that he spends all his time ""dossing around"" (i.e. ""goofing off"" in Freedom Units)

Friend C seems to be the ideal grad student, I envy him his diligence, he's always in the lab from 9am-7pm, but then friend D (who he works with) mentions that it took him months too long to do an important task that others were relying on, and D had to do it for him in the end, just to get the group project finished.

I realised that everyone I knew probably felt inadequate at least sometimes, and they probably all thought I had my shit together, and that helped ease my imposter syndrome a bit.

**I picked a few valuable people to think I'm a moron**

In everyday life, I have a category of people whose opinions I don't care about. This is usually reserved for people I judge to be assholes or morons whose opinion I can't possibly change. For example, a young-Earth creationist I know thinks I'm either a sheep or part of the scientific conspiracy against God because I supported the Earth being billions of years old. Eventually I just gave up and stopped caring what he thought of me.

I picked a couple of people here and there who could help me with my basic problems, and deliberately committed pride-suicide with them by asking the most basic stupid questions I needed answered. It was painful to do, but once it was done, I could mentally shrug and say ""well, the cat's out of the bag now, he knows I'm a dumbass anyway"" and I felt free to ask for more help.

I was (and continue to be) extremely polite, humble and grateful for all their help. I didn't want to be an arrogant idiot, because I had nothing but respect for these colleagues of mine, and still wanted to minimise my impact on their work. (Un)surprisingly, everyone was very friendly and helpful and I made good progress in my work by leveraging these few helpers. None of them have insulted me for asking a stupid question, and even if I have lowered their private, personal opinions of me, they're too professional to let it show, and I've made peace with it because any higher opinions would be undeserved anyway.

**I saddled myself with regular contact with my supervisor**

I suggested to my supervisor that we talk at least every week at a set time via videoconference, so that I'd *have* to talk to him at least at the agreed time, and wouldn't be able to squirm out of it. This helped leverage the part of my mind that used to cause me to go into panic mode every time I had to give an update. Those panics were hell, but they did make me get stuff done. Forcing myself to give weekly updates helped spread out the load, so I didn't ever feel panicked, but had enough pressure to get work done every week. I also got into the habit of emailing little updates throughout the week whenever I made a small step forward, which gave me a teeny-tiny ego boost each time, since I felt I could say ""look, I've achieved **this one specific thing** since we last spoke"".

This regular stream of emails made it much easier to slip in a casual question here or there without it seeming like a big deal. My supervisor may not be familiar with the tools/software I'm using, but he's a absolute guru/genius when it comes to the underlying science, so the 2-way flow of explanation (me explaining my progress and him explaining some background theory I don't get) has been useful, since he often knows the right questions to ask about my work that will direct me towards the solution on my own, even if he doesn't know the answer himself.

I hope my experience can help some other poor lost grad student some day.

**TL;DR:** Alarm clock not phone, vegetables not chocolate, everyone (and therefore no one) is an imposter, revealed my inner idiot to get the help I needed, started talking to my supervisor more often.

(Edited for clarity and detail)",20,286,1006.3749257635767,GradSchool
"Lego depicting grad school reality, but with a smile!",,33,280,1143.0929813191322,GradSchool
New motto for grad school.,,13,285,1413.0835600228359,GradSchool
"I submitted a fellowship proposal today that I have no chance of winning, and I feel great!",I finished my application for a fellowship today that is super competitive and I have no chance of winning. But writing up my research statement was an amazing exercise in seeing how far I've come in my program and reminding myself of my long term goals. I'm pumped up and feel like I want to write my next three papers all at once now!,12,283,24.90177761542852,GradSchool
I broke down crying at a lab meeting this morning,"My advisor was leading an incredibly negative meeting, making every lab member there feel like they were failing him and the scientific community through disorganization and lack of drive. I couldn’t handle the negativity, especially since it’s been a very frustrating month of debugging and slaving over a new system I’ve been setting up. 

I was trying to explain to him how frustrating this whole experience had been and just started crying with everyone there. It was really unexpected. I got up and left the meeting and sobbed in another room for a few minutes.

It’s very difficult to feel like you or your work matters in science. The accomplishments you set out to achieve take a very long time to come to fruition, and many times entire projects are abandoned due to funding issues or the whims of your advisor changing. I’m completely emotionally drained, and don’t know how to continue on with my work. I feel so burdened by grad school, it’s just so difficult to feel inspired and motivated here.

I hope you are having a better day than me. I truly do.",19,280,371.2052614117248,GradSchool
Thesis acknowledgement,,10,283,591.9518239117249,GradSchool
Just got an industry job!,"After 4 rounds of interviews with a company, I got a written offer to start next month! I'm excited to get finally get a start on the next step of my career!  ",28,280,277.19169659691,GradSchool
My abstract was accepted for poster presentation!,"This is my third one to date. Really quite excited. It's entitled:

""Treatment and Rehabilitation Challenges in a Person with Anterograde Amnesia Following TBI""

Woo!",19,280,5.31225215246556,GradSchool
Completely destroyed by my PI today,"After many years of a good relationship with my PI (or so I thought), today I was told that I don’t follow instructions, they’ve been waiting for work I haven’t produced, and that if I “died tomorrow it would be a real shame as [my] data is not clear enough for [the PI] to continue working on on [their] own”. I’ve also spent a week and a half breaking my back to finish something they told me to do last time and found out today they “could have done that [themselves]”. 

Feeling worthless AF right now.",74,281,202.23232159691,GradSchool
I ask Reddit before I ask my advisor.,,26,278,342.0571479857989,GradSchool
Impending deadlines...,,11,279,894.1137567820953,GradSchool
Lemme tell you how academia works.,,30,278,1617.3010253006137,GradSchool
‘The way universities are run is making us ill’: inside the student mental health crisis,,50,277,13.673560022835929,GradSchool
Advisor meetings at the end of the semester...,,7,279,537.6775762265396,GradSchool
My committee member didn't come to my defense,"I had my master's defense yesterday. Everything was ready, I felt prepared...and one of my committee members didn't show up. Not only was he not in the room, he was several hours away because he forgot my defense was yesterday!

Fortunately, my advisor talked to the department chair, and I gave my defense to the two of them, and could do so on the condition that this morning I'd meet with the one who was missing and convince him I knew what I was talking about.

But now it's done! I passed, and just have edits left.",25,276,529.3702035413545,GradSchool
Spring break expectations vs. reality,,33,275,581.1463725228359,GradSchool
I have the most important presentation of my grad school life in 15 days and I have only prepared about 5% of it,"But at least I'm getting a lot of long-neglected household chores done. Yep, nothing like an important thing coming up to get me to clean my bathroom

Edit: Oops! It's actually 13 days (friday after next)! Well now I'm definitely going to re-organize all my pots and pans",55,275,316.96761094876183,GradSchool
My experience,,20,279,531.9918354857989,GradSchool
Successfully defended!,"I feel so relieved to be finally done! Annoyingly I had to extend my PhD to 4 years (UK) to fit in an industrial consultancy. It was very interesting and I’m glad took the extra time really, but it was so infuriating to watch students I mentored pass their viva before me. 

Still, after 4.5 hours of a really enjoyable discussion I was thrilled to be done. They passed me without any corrections, so I just have to print off a final copy and update my flair on this sub. Happy times!",13,278,170.9776456709841,GradSchool
An amazing weekend,"On Saturday night, I was at my hookah spot in the DC area. I was chatting with some people I had met a few weeks ago. They found out I was doing my PhD.  They weren't only impressed, but also amazed with the work I'm doing. It led me to think about a lot of things since then. From the outside of academia you have people who are vindictive towards us for pursuing a PhD and will punish us if they're in a gate-keeping role for an employer. Meanwhile, there are others who find it fascinating. Being a Black man and being a PhD student I feel as if I'm the results of the sacrifices my ancestors made. For them in their lifetime what I am doing was impossible.  Even for my 81 year old grandpa. I am in this space where I can expand myself and contribute to a field.  It really re-centered me, and affirmed who I am and what I do. I don't have plans to work in academia once I'm done. I'm taking my knowledge into the world once I am done.

&#x200B;

This weekend made me think about the toxic environment that academia can be, and really understand what it means to navigate it. Not only navigate it, but learn that you may be in the environment, but you aren't of the environment. The moment we start playing the games, start stressing out on our dissertation.  Honestly, I think it is the moment we lose ourselves.  It is always best to remain focused on the reasons you chose this path.

&#x200B;

This isn't a post about an event or what happened. This post is more of a message, and that message is quite simple.

&#x200B;

Understand the space you're in. Value yourself and your work. Everyone here are incredible human beings. No one here is mediocre. We're all strong, and we only become weak when we forget this. Stay strong, keep working; your time is NOW.

&#x200B;

Enjoy your week!",16,276,351.78231002283593,GradSchool
my response when someone asks me how my dissertation proposal is coming along,,23,275,810.1234674302433,GradSchool
Staying Healthy During Your PhD,"*As most of us know, graduate degrees can be really hard on our mental and physical health. About a year ago, I started a list of quick tips to get out of a funk. I hope that it helps some of you! Let me know your tips as well!*


Do you have a **hard time going to bed/waking up** on time?

- Don't work past 10pm (or within 2 hours of going to bed). You need to give yourself some time to settle down before bed. Read some fiction or watch a mindless show/movie. Try to avoid just browsing the internet which can lead to you staying up later than you planned (the story of my life).

- Don't do any work in your bedroom. You need to separate work from rest in your head. When you go to your bedroom, you should feel relaxed. 

- Use an alarm clock. Don't keep your phone next to your bed. You don't want to be bothered though out the night with the constant buzzing. This also helps with getting up in the morning by avoiding procrastination (""the morning scroll""). Also, don't hit snooze!

- Aim to sleep at least 7.5 hours/night. I've heard multiples of 1.5 hours are ideal, but no idea if this is true.

- If you're sensitive to caffeine, switch to green tea in the afternoon. It's better for your teeth as well!

Do you have a hard time **feeling 'present'**, **mingling with people**, or **thinking about things that aren't your thesis research?** (I find that these are all inter-related.)

- Make sure to get enough *positive* social interaction every week. For example: department coffee meet-ups, pick-up football games, board games, etc. Going to the pub can be positive as well, but keep in mind how much you're spending/drinking.

- Make sure that your entire sense of meaning isn't coming from your thesis work. Make sure to have hobbies outside of your work. Have some interesting things to talk about with your friends. Nurture your natural curiosity!

- Consider trying Mindfulness meditation. I was skeptical, but I think that it helped (even though I don't do it any more).

Do you have a hard time with **procrastination?**

- Make to do lists! Create a hierarchy of tasks by breaking each task into manageable chunks. It then becomes much easier to chip away at projects.

- Try to do something *slightly* more productive with your time (e.g., improve your programming skills on CodeAcademy, DataQuest, etc.). This is good as long as you don't spend too much time on this...

- Uninstall social media from your phone (e.g., reddit, facebook, etc.) and only subscribe to healthy/positive subreddits.

Feel like **your project is going no where?**

- Set up weekly meeting with your supervisor to make sure that you're making steady progress

- Again, make to do lists!

Just **feeling down** in general?

- A lot of this can be physical!

- Check your posture. Are your shoulders rounding forward from being at a desk all day? Imagine there is a string coming out of the top of your head that is pulling you up. Stand tall and proud. Also, check the ergonomics of your desk.

- Smile more! It sounds bad, but you actually can fake it until you feel better.

- Get in early. Aim for getting in everyday by 9-9:30am. You can feel productive without doing anything by just showing up on time.

- Make sure you're listening to *positive* music. 

- Try taking vitamin D in the winter.

Are you **putting on weight?**

- Avoid morning snacking by having a whey protein shake with breakfast. They are good for feeling full.

- Alternate meat/vegetarian days. This also helps save money and the environment :)

- Bring lunch whenever possible.

- Stop buying sugary drinks and candy! It's just wasted money anyways.

- Track your progress on MyFitnessPal.

Feeling **unattractive?**

- Make sure you're taking care of yourself!

- Personal hygiene:  Brush twice a day, floss at least every few days, wash your face before bed, moisturize, shave every other day, sleep more, get regular haircuts, etc.

- Appearance: Don't have to spend too much money, but don't let your clothes get too ratty. Focus on classics that don't go out of style.

- Fitness: Aim for exercising +3 days a week. E.g., pick up football/touch rugby, weight lifting, running...

General health related habits:

- Keep in touch with friends. Make lunch dates, movie nights, play sports, etc.

- Read! Aim for 1 book every 2-4 weeks, but don't turn it into work. Make sure that they're entertaining for you (doesn't have to be intense non-fiction or literary classics), but they shouldn't be trash either... I enjoy sci-fi for a good mix of entertainment and content.

- Try to limit multi-tasking. It often feels like we should multitask, but it often isn't very efficient and just stresses you out even more.

",12,276,826.9122290043175,GradSchool
My Grad School Low GPA Success Story,"Hello all. I thought I'd post this, not to boast, but to give some hope to people in my shoes. This is a throwaway account, by the way.

If you're on this forum and you're worried you can't pursue your dreams because, in the past, you weren't as high of an achiever as you are now I'm here to tell you that you can do it.

Me: 3.1-ish GPA, 1 year of research experience, 1 year of experience in industry post-graduation from college.

A year ago, almost exactly, I found myself miserable at my industry job. I didn't feel any passion for what I was doing and manufacturing environments treat you terribly. Leaving college I'd known that I wanted to go to graduate school but I was dissuaded because I thought, and was told, that my low GPA would hold me back from admission. I reached a point in my mental health that I just flat out folded on my job and decided that I HAD to pursue my dreams of being a scientist. If I failed, then I failed.

I reached out to this forum and many other common forums for people to ask their chances. I was literally told things like:

""You have absolutely no chance of getting in""

""You couldn't even get into a ranked school with that GPA""

""With a GPA that low you'd be wasting everyone's time, you're obviously not smart.""

""The schools you'd get into aren't even worth going to""

Whatever. I didn't have but a single person tell me I had a chance out of about 50 responses to posts I'd made. It was ""obviously"" futile, but I tried anyways.

This was my method:

1. I emailed professors personally after reading over their research.
2. When a professor seemed interesting or promising I emailed the department chairs expressing my interest in specific professors and their program.
3. I took initiative and made offers to visit schools that felt promising. I took buses, I stayed in crappy hotels and slept in airports. Despite not having money to blow on visits, I made it happen - comfortable or not.
4. I sent pre-visit emails to staff members I saw as potential collaborators and post-visit thank-you's for taking their valuable time to meet with someone who was obviously not an ideal candidate (but I never painted myself as anything other than confident).

This was my method. I ended up applying to about 10 schools because I figured that MAYBE I would get into one or two of them if I was lucky because of statistics alone.

Schools I applied to/rank in my field:

Arizona State University-9

Oregon State University-30

University of Montana-20

Harvard University-3

University of Maryland Baltimore County-60

Tennessee Tech University-65

Villanova-unranked

University of Florida-15

Not going to name the one I went to -22

University of California Irvine -32

So - where did I get in?

Other than UC Irvine, EVERY. SINGLE. PROGRAM. With full funding. 

My takeaways: 

1. Showing interest and making sure when people look at your application they know your face is HUGE. People don't see you as a number at that point, they see you as a person who already went out of their way to prove to you that they would be dependable.
2. Don't discount lower ranked schools. UMBC (Baltimore County) was a school I'd never heard of before this process, and they impressed me as much as any other institution I visited. And they were wonderful people, I might add.
3. Be confident, but not cocky. Email people. Politely ask them for some papers that detail future work they might do. If you like a professor and they don't email you back politely call and leave a voicemail regarding your interest in their work.
4. Be gracious and polite. These people have to hear from so many of us every year and sift through a bizillion emails. They have to think ""can I stand working with this individual for upwards of 5 years?"" so of course they'll chose someone that is, at the very least, dependable, flexible, and caring about  their own personal needs.

Forums of any variation can be metaphorical cancer. Believe in yourself, try hard, and pave your own way if you have to. If  a num-nuts like me can pull this off I know any of you can. 

Good luck out there to anyone in the shoes I was very recently wearing.",81,277,426.36125678209515,GradSchool
On the rare occasion you can muster up the time and energy to go out just to be constantly asked “how’s the grad life?”,,11,276,591.2631665043174,GradSchool
"I'm 46 years old, and I just got accepted to grad school!","I've applied for, and been accepted for the summer semester of the MFA in Writing and Publishing Popular Fiction at Emerson College!  I'm a bit crazed with fear right now, but excited too!  Go Lions!",24,276,949.8837915043174,GradSchool
Mature Student,"I am a high school drop out who went and got high school equivalency at 24, went to nursing school at 28, finally went to study what I actually wanted to at 38 and I'm two months shy of completing my undergraduate degree. I had an interview on Wednesday to study my master's degree and have been given a conditional offer at 43, never too old it seems ",50,273,570.4913146524656,GradSchool
TL; DR: You matter. Don’t let the imposter syndrome get you down. ❤️,"Wanted to share a musing I had today. Imposter syndrome gets talked about a lot in grad school, but no matter how many times people try to reassure me that (a) everyone feels it and (b) the people here deserve to be here, I don't feel all that reassured.

But it occurred to me today while talking with a friend that I've been/wanted to be a writer since I was 9 years old. I don't think anyone who knew me as a kid is surprised that I wound up in grad school for Writing Studies. I've literally been working towards this for most of my life. so why would I feel unworthy of this stop on that path? 

I guess what I'm trying to say is: if you can hardly make heads or tails of what you're learning, if you don't feel like you have a valuable contribution to make, you still bring something important to your field. You matter. You belong.",47,272,36.02079381913223,GradSchool
"What is the best, funniest, & catchiest paper titles you've come across?","I saw this gem: You Probably Think This Paper’s About You: Narcissists’ Perceptions of Their Personality and Reputation. (Carlson et al, 2012)",120,271,125.10243733765074,GradSchool
I got in,I actually got in. I can’t believe it. I’m going to grad school!,30,271,318.95408085616924,GradSchool
How I feel while waiting for feedback on my dissertation,,11,274,905.25669659691,GradSchool
gradschool showerthought: If i actually read any of the papers i have cited things would be a lot easier.,"So, LPT, know your lit ! 
lol",49,274,984.1879003006137,GradSchool
How everyday seems to go,,9,272,1261.9320785413545,GradSchool
Defended today. This is how I dealt with stress before defence!,,24,268,393.063097059873,GradSchool
One in two PhD students experiences psychological distress; one in three is at risk of a common psychiatric disorder.,,31,269,164.96395354135444,GradSchool
I passed quals!,"Just got the news today - I'm through! I'm officially a PhD candidate! Also, through a weird set of twists, I finished my comps as a first year! (Already had a masters, which at my new program doesn't get me out of any classes but lets me do comps my first year.)

Now my family is asking if I ""got an A on the final"" and I'm trying to explain that's not how it works, lol. ",17,269,530.2933864117248,GradSchool
when you get a little too attached to your statistical methods,,11,266,826.2834211339471,GradSchool
It Takes a Village; An Aside about Others,"When I began my doctoral studies in 2013, I completely underestimated how much I would need other people to complete my dissertation. Many people helped me along the way. To name a few: librarians, professors, staff members who I worked with in my GAship. Today, I'm writing about someone you wouldn't usually think of in this category, a barista.In January 2018, my advisor was calling me once every two days for an update on my first initial draft of my dissertation. At this point, I was working 12-14 hours every day on it in some capacity, whether it be coding some additional data, outlining, or filling in details. I was in a mad rush to finish, and I began to notice a few things about the way that I worked:

1. It was important that I got started early in the morning. I had been a night owl all my life, but I realized that my writing in the morning was much more coherent than at night.
2. I could only concentrate in one space for about 4-5 hours. I would go from the library cafe, to a local coffee shop, to a restaurant, back to the library, and finally, end up at a bar. My best days of writing ended with 2 or 3 beers because I got to look forward it all day, it relieved stress, and when I got a little buzzed, I knew it was time to call it quits for the day. 
3. One day off would add about 30 minutes to my writing the next day, as I tried to pick everything up back from where I started.
4. Sometimes I REALLY needed that one day off and the 30 minutes was totally worth it.

During this time, I became friendly with baristas all over town. On this one night in January I came into my favorite coffee shop and worked for about 2 hours when suddenly something amazing happened... I finished! I didn't know what to do with myself, so I walked to the counter, and I plainly told the barista, ""I... I just finished my dissertation."" He celebrated with me and whipped me up a special latte on him. 

For context, the town the university I attended was in has a sharp line between the townie and the student. The two do not often get along. At this moment, neither of us minded, though, and he was happy to celebrate my victory. Today, nearly 12 months later, I walked in to get a coffee and to work on my classes I'm teaching next semester, and he actually remembered me and asked me how things were going.

I know this sounds very minor but this guy sees thousands of customers every year, and he actually remembered me. I share this with you for a few reasons. First, for those of you who are just beginning your graduate school journey, don't forget the people who serve you on a daily basis, whether they be university staff or people in the service industry. You need these people to help you support your work. Second, I thought this was a fun story and I just wanted to share it. To everyone who posts here on a daily basis about how hard things are going, all of us who finished and completed our degrees know exactly how you feel. This is a scary and strange career path. Only the strong (and lucky) survive. Take care of yourself, and spread kindness to others.",13,264,298.12911557839146,GradSchool
More like 22... (x-posted from /r/teenagers),,15,268,654.5247174302434,GradSchool
Grad School Finances,,18,269,707.8627035413544,GradSchool
GOP tax bill would consider tuition wavers taxable income,,88,264,711.4892776154285,GradSchool
I finally passed my qualifying exam!,"This is to those who failed their first exam and planning to try again. You can do it! Keep your chin up and push through even if you doubt yourself. 

Background: in May I failed my exam with permission to retake. I’ve spent the past year trying to become a better scientist and worked my ass off to make my project doable and worth pursuing. It sucked tbh...a lot. I was at an all time emotional low but I pushed through it. I’ve grown so much by pushing myself through that failure. There were times over the past months when I thought I should just leave with my masters since my committee obviously didn’t think I was worthy of a phd.....But I said fuck it and wanted to prove myself and others wrong. Today I retook my exam and passed with flying colors. I’ve never been so proud of myself :3 I did it. I’m a PhD candidate!",19,267,256.9802151154285,GradSchool
Conference registration conversation with PI,,6,263,526.33575909691,GradSchool
Just frustrated engineering grads,,13,264,938.3221364117248,GradSchool
The True Cost of a PhD: Giving Up a Family for Academia,,142,260,10.38211326357667,GradSchool
Train PhD students to be thinkers not just specialists,"My supervisor just send me this to read and told me to not forget what grad school is all about becoming a critical thinker able to solve more than just one problem

  [https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-01853-1](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-01853-1)",27,266,42.104914189502594,GradSchool
You ever wish papers could just skip the foreplay and get right to business?,"I'm going crazy lol, been working on a literature review/edits for the past few weeks and have read the same thing said different ways at least 50 times.",41,262,83.99357159691,GradSchool
Opinion | It’s Taken 5 Decades to Get the Ph.D. Her Abusive Professor Denied Her,,29,265,141.96382622653965,GradSchool
Finished the semester with all A’s!,"Okay, wow, this was a lot to take in this morning when I checked. I’m in my first semester of a PhD and while I know grades are not all that matters, I feel like wins like these are the things that make you feel good to keep going.  

I’m a DACA recipient in the United States and have struggled with imposter syndrome on a terrifying scale ever since given the designation in 2012. I never believed I was good enough to get into university, let alone graduate school, but I have been working my ass off ever since to give my dreams a chance. 

Whatever you’re doing, whatever you’re feeling, please know you’re not alone. You and your dreams ARE worth it and they can be realizable. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise. ",15,264,299.0533979857989,GradSchool
Accepted!,Just received an acceptance to a great PhD program from my first choice school (University of Sheffield)! I'm so excited to continue down this path. Woo!   ,13,264,330.2674952080211,GradSchool
I found out I passed my written comprehensive exams!,"I still have to go through my oral examination after this, but it feels good to have such a big hurdle out of the way. Just thought I'd share. These are for my PhD program in applied mathematics.",19,262,357.23249520802113,GradSchool
Are we not addressing the fact that many who post here seem to have serious emotional problems?,"Let me start by saying that I'm close to finishing my own master's program. And though I like to think I'm a pretty smart guy - I'm no genius, so it's not like I breezed my way through where others might struggle. I get the stresses that go along with being in grad school: the dismal job outlook in academia, the uncertainty as to whether you're wasting your time and sailing further into debt for the privilege of becoming a ""professional student,"" and so on. The head of my MA program told me that she thought about leaving every day her first semester, and I'd say I had pretty much the same experience.

That being said, my grad school experience hasn't been anywhere near as harrowing as much of what I read about on this sub. A cursory glance at today's front page reveals titles such as ""I broke down crying at a lab meeting this morning."" ""Today's failure..."" ""How to manage stress/anxiety."" ""Struggling to balance school, work, social life."" ""My passion is just gone..."" ""Embarrassed by your work?""

Maybe I'm overstating it, but it just seems like the mood around here most days is unrelentingly negative. And since I haven't had that kind of experience myself, I have to wonder - am I just in the minority? Did I get lucky? Is grad school really that soul-crushing for most people, and if so, why?

Or, alternatively, is there maybe something about the type of personality that gravitates toward grad school that lends itself to this kind of decency to languish in the doldrums? And if so, what can we do about that? Should we be encouraging people to seek out help - as in, professional counseling - more often? Or even saying that Hey, if you're having that hard a time, maybe you should reconsider whether or not grad school is for you?

Just some thoughts I had while perusing today's threads. Am I crazy?",78,264,371.0888956709841,GradSchool
Make sure you have a great advisor,"Today I got an email telling me that I had one credit less than I was supposed to have. Because of this I would have to get one more credit or basically risk getting kicked out of my GA. It was a slip up on me and my advisors part as one of my classes I needed got changed to a different class on part of the professor who was in charge of the seminar. Changing the title of the course also changed the number of credits I had.

After I got the email, I had a full-blown anxiety attack while trying to find an open grad course ASAP. My advisor sent an email apologizing and saying that since I was in her reading group, she would make a special ""course"" just for me and give me participation and an assignment related to our reading group before the end of the semester.

People make mistakes, advisors are only human. A good advisor will apologize for a mistake. A great advisor will own up to it and correct it.",29,267,378.0839419672804,GradSchool
"Grad school is rough, so here's a post to help you see the light","No matter what you are going to grad school for, we have all experienced some challenges. Sometimes these challenges are so great that you feel like you can't continue with your degree, but remember how you got here! You worked so hard throughout undergrad to pursue you dream of higher education. Good job and keep going! I know I don't receive the praise I want from my family, so I look to other to tell me that I am doing great with my life. If that sounds like you, then listen here. You don't need anyone (besides your mentor/PI) to acknowledge the work you are doing, you just need to keep the goal in mind. You will have a MS/PhD/MD/etc that you earned on your own! Have a great day and keep up the good work!",52,263,405.9913378006137,GradSchool
xkcd 2025: Peer Review,,4,267,445.3259327080211,GradSchool
Me_irl,,11,266,711.0909674302433,GradSchool
"P.h.Done! (original, I know)",Lost my asterisk today. Successful defense with only relatively minor edits to do. Off to my postdoc at the end of the month!,12,264,75.04925446728038,GradSchool
Am I good enough for Grad school?,"Guys please I’m really worried I don’t think I’m good enough to get in to any grad school. Here are my qualifications: I interned at Google, Apple, and Tesla (all in the same year) I make deans list almost every year, I assist with research at Harvard and Yale, and I have a 10.0 GPA. Please help 








But really guys jokes aside you don’t need to be a super student to get into graduate school. Go easy on yourself. ",63,267,219.8041040043174,GradSchool
MRW my committee kept asking questions during the closed door section,,1,263,910.1297058561693,GradSchool
I submitted my PhD thesis today,"And I feel fantastic! Three long years in the making. It's on eighteenth-century literature and it involved a lot of time getting pale in freezing cold archives. Now I think I'd like to spend some time getting tan on a hot beach before my viva in December. 

Anyway I wanted to do a tiny brag here because I knew r/GradSchool would get it. I hope everyone's having a great day!",23,262,743.3956202080211,GradSchool
"When they ask, ""Are you gonna graduate this year?""",,11,259,770.1731780783915,GradSchool
Attended commencement. Graduated.,It's over.   I survived,25,262,72.13218270802112,GradSchool
Tomorrow is my defense!,I’ve been in my graduate program (communication and marketing) since Fall of 2014 and I’m finally doing my defense tomorrow morning! Wish me luck! I’m nervous as hell! ,28,259,314.74953224505816,GradSchool
"""The 7 habits of highly ineffective researchers"". The last grad student left this little card up in our office and I like it enough to share",,11,262,825.1277382635767,GradSchool
Please take care of yourselves,"Please take advantage of school-provided counseling. 

Please take a day off once in a while for stress relief.

Please listen to the people around you who love you when they ask you to get help when you are struggling.

My boyfriend and I are 3rd year graduate students. On Tuesday night he was involuntarily committed to a mental hospital following a months-long complete mental breakdown due to the stresses of school. Both of our lives are in pieces. His graduate career is most likely over. He will be forced to return to his home country when he is released from the hospital. It is entirely possible he will never return to the States.

I begged him to get help. He refused. Too busy, too proud, too scared. He got help in the end, but it's not in a place anybody wants to be. I had to call the cops on him in the end. I had to send the love of my life to what is essentially jail. I have to live with that, forever.

Grad school is tough. Sometimes, it's impossible. If you are struggling, please, I'm begging you, take the first step towards help. I don't want this to happen to anyone else, to any other of you bright, amazing, incredible human beings. 

YOU are more important than your research. You are more than the sum of your work. 

Please take care of yourselves.",22,264,1692.2548563191322,GradSchool
Defended!!!,"Long time lurker, first time poster here. After years of self-doubt and anxiety (there were good times too!), I successfully defended my PhD dissertation today!!! 

To everyone who's still working: keep at it, remember to take breaks, and celebrate ALL your milestones throughout -- you deserve it!",18,258,70.99608317098408,GradSchool
Got my teaching evaluations back and I'm so happy I could cry,"The first time I taught this subject, my teaching evaluations weren't great despite me feeling that I was across the material. I then sat down and worked my butt off to improve my teaching style and the structure of my classes. I didn't know whether I'd be ever able to deliver to the standards I wanted. 

That was a year ago. I just opened my latest teaching evaluations. There are six categories. In three of the categories, every single student who responded gave me the highest possible ranking. In the other three, all but one student gave me the highest possible ranking - and that one student gave me the second highest possible ranking. I have poured myself into this subject, and it means so much that students appreciate it. 

To people doing coursework - if you're happy with your TA or lecturer, tell them and fill out their evaluations. So much work goes into teaching beyond the job description - be it comforting crying students in your office, diving deep into students' code to figure out what's throwing error messages, or catching up the student who has to miss class to get a tumor removed. We don't get paid for any of this, but it's worth it when students learn something useful and enjoy the process.",12,262,92.90858317098407,GradSchool
"You Procrastinate Because Of Emotions, Not Laziness. Regulate Them To Stop Procrastinating! | Cognition Today",,10,260,161.51895354135445,GradSchool
Do you ever cry from the stress?,Well? Do ya?  Cuz I just did. Fwiw I’m a guy.,100,256,257.5763609487619,GradSchool
This semester needs to die,"I’m so tired that I took a nap and just woke up (at 8 PM), freaked out because I thought it was the morning and I called my TA in a panic and said “MY ALARMS DIDNT WAKE ME UP CAN YOU START THE FINAL WITHOUT ME!??!??!”   
She literally had to talk me down. I was shaking and throwing on clothes in a panic.  
“GIRL it’s Thursday”   
“NO ITS NOT!”   
“Yes it is its NIGHT!”  
“......it’s night?”  
“YES!”  
  
So yeah. Take care of yourselves fellow grads. Thankfully only one more year to go good god...",33,261,529.8930739117247,GradSchool
I have been lurker on this sub since getting my B.A. in 2012...,...now I have my Ph.D.! Thanks to all of the contributors to this sub. Your advice made my graduate school experience feel more normal. Know that even if I don't contribute content my upvote is ever present.,7,260,557.3314535413544,GradSchool
I passed! I did it!!!,"Hi all! Here's an update as requested by u/ThisIsSpata!
&nbsp;

You might remember me from my frantic post I made on Saturday, about how the heck I was going to get through Monday. I finished driving up on Sunday and realized I had forgotten part of my outfit, so I rushed myself and my bf off to T. J. Maxx and found nothing. Realized I was stalling. Went back to the Airbnb and wrote the presentation. My great bf helped me cut it down and time it to 10 minutes (he's a gem).

&nbsp;

I got us up at 7:30 and got to campus by 9, for an 11am defense. Spent a couple of hours frantically reviewing recent articles, and eventually made the walk over to the defense room. On the way over I thought a lot about how, as u/whisperingmoon said, I didn't have to be perfect, I just had to be good enough. So I settled into the defense room with my second committee member... and after 15 minutes the chair hadn't arrived. Turns out he forgot the defense was happening, and had scheduled a class over it. So yeah, you could call him absent-minded. We postponed it to the afternoon.
&nbsp;

I went and got lunch and coffee with my bf and made the command decision not to study anymore. Honestly, if I didn't know it then, I wasn't going to. Also, what a microcosm of my chair overall as an advisor!
&nbsp;

Anyway, I felt like it went super well. Because I spent 30 months on the same damn research question, I could answer pretty much everything they threw at me, including early 20th-century authors of articles from regions not my own. I was so ready and I didn't even know it! I mean, I was shaking the entire time - I dug my nails into my hands to stop every so often - but halfway through I just forgot where I was and that I was defending and it felt more like a conversation. Eventually the conversation died down after about 1hr45 and they sent me in the hall. They said ""don't go far!"" and soon after they were shaking my hands saying I had an unconditional pass.

&nbsp;

I'd like to give a *huge* thanks to u/whisperingmoon, u/AstraGlacialia, u/tacoprincess, and u/anonymousbach. Your comments on my original post were invaluable; I looked at them several times, including while sitting in the defense room waiting to start it. Thank you so much for not only giving me the confidence to push through and just get through it, but also for recognizing that I already had it within me to succeed.
&nbsp;

As for future plans, we decided I'll hold off applying this round but get a killer package together to apply for next year. Also hey, I got a book deal? One of my pet projects from coursework, in a somewhat unrelated field, won a grant and the university press is already trying to find us subventions for future publication. It's an unpublished collection of work I found in a filing cabinet that's very, very exciting. Anyway, I'll be spending the next 2 years putting together a manuscript, working with a wonderful curator, and also getting paid for all of my research time.

&nbsp;

Plenty is coming up daisies. Thank you all so very much.",9,260,686.3257822450582,GradSchool
I made the mistake of writing my dissertation in Word.,"I'm writing this post while I wait for it to save... It's now up to 600MB and every time I hit save it freezes for about 10-15min before being usable again (doesn't matter if I'm on my old laptop or stupidly overpowered desktop)...

I should have been smarter and used something much more capable, but I'm so close to finishing it's not worth switching anymore. For anyone who has not yet started writing and will include a lot of figures, do yourself a favor and use something like LaTeX instead.",132,258,162.22338641172482,GradSchool
Bought Champagne today,"I did it. Passed my Oral Comps today and was awarded my Masters.  I will be celebrating with my family and friends later tonight. 

For everyone thinking it’s too hard or it won’t happen, hang in there. When you finish and the professors give you congratulations, hot damn that’s a good feeling!",13,256,312.0426688191322,GradSchool
Professors play with your life and just don't care/realize about how much they affect it.,"1 year and a half ago—I asked my current ""advisor"" for a Master thesis project. He accepts, tells me the topic, to start looking around before my thesis semester would actually start, and that there may be an RA for compensation. I enroll for the next semester with him as my official advisor.

&#x200B;

1 year ago—It's time to start working on my thesis. He tells me that what I have to do is now a different topic, and that he has no money to sponsor students. In the meanwhile, he gives my initial topic to another student, to whom he will give a payed RA. From there, I've been working alone. I haven't had any request for meeting granted, he was rarely in is office to be tracked down, and pretty much all my requests for help/suggestion/clarification went ignored. I only later realized he very likely didn't have answers for those question, but that's not up for discussion.

&#x200B;

Fast forward to three months ago—my manuscript is ready and it's time for defense. I defend my thesis in December. My advisor is learning in that very moment what I did. After all, he didn't talk to me all year, he didn't read my slides or my thesis beforehand, and I'm sure has very little understanding of what I've done, considering the questions I got asked during my defense.

When my defense is over, one of the members of the committee has to leave. They regroup behind closed doors, and they sign my 'PASS'. After he leaves, my advisor and the third member (guess? Yes, his wife. From a completely different department and from which no one would hardly ever expect any knowledge on the topic) keep me in the room for more questions. After that, he adds additional requirements to my graduation, on the same piece of paper the other advisor had already signed. He asks me if I can start writing a paper on the topic that he has to publish, like if I was his assistant. I tell him clearly I have no interest in publication whatsoever, so he adds more requirements, including everything I have from what I've done, and he leaves. For context, this work would be part of a much bigger project he is involved in with lot of other entities, to which he would have presented my work as his own and got his share of the (glory? profit? whatever).

&#x200B;

Today: Deadline for graduation this term is in a week. I was not able to meet all those additional requirements. Sent him an email, no answer. Can't apply for STEM OPT extension as I'm not effectively graduated. My company just told me they decided not to sponsor me for an H1-B.

Thanks for everything, I guess.

&#x200B;

What to take from this: do coursework completion. You want/have to do a thesis? choose your advisor carefully—he might end up to be your mentor, or your worst nightmare.",33,258,214.02920817098408,GradSchool
When someone requests the fulltext of your open-access paper,,16,258,630.3176572450582,GradSchool
Going to lab on the weekends like... (just kidding...),,16,258,968.2929697450581,GradSchool
‘Seek Funding’ Step Added To Scientific Method | The Onion,,9,255,1432.1405391895025,GradSchool
"Realization: Imposter syndrome is temporary, and it only remains when you're afraid to try.","_Forgive the long reflective post, thought it was a nice thing to share as the year ends._
&#x200B;

I was reflecting on the past year and a half of my Master's degree, as I move on in a month to transition into my PhD. I'm sure most of us have experienced imposter syndrome at some point - feeling like we don't belong where we are, that we somehow fooled people into thinking we were ready for grad school. Watching my fellow older lab mates go through things and thinking ""I will never be able to do that, I'm not smart enough or good enough to accomplish that."" But I realized, as I continued on through my degree, was that I always had the knowledge I needed when I needed it. I was helping a friend with her personal statement for grad school, confidently giving her advice and thinking, ""Man, just a couple of years ago, I was that scared student applying for grad school and having no idea what a professor would be looking for in a personal statement."" Things I thought I would never know or be able to do a year ago, I am able to do relatively confidently now.

I was fortunate enough to have a supervisor who knew how to guide me. Who was readily available for me to ask questions and never judged me on how much I knew or didn't know. Who encouraged me to write short workshop papers early in my degree, who supported and funded me to go to conferences early and stuck with me and introduced me to so many new connections in my field. Some of my supervisor's colleagues were surprised at a first year Master's student already attending conferences and talking about research, but it's only thanks to the support of my supervisor that I was able to do this. **But, I had to get over the fear of** ***trying*** **these things.** I had to get over being afraid to TA classes, to write papers, to talk to people so much more senior than me, to take classes that seemed really difficult but would provide me much knowledge for my future research, to give presentations, etc.

So as I go on to my PhD, I try to remind myself that I may think that I can never accomplish a PhD - that I might not be independent enough to do independent research, to perform well in quals, or to achieve candidacy. That I might never be able to fully instruct a class. But I do believe that, when the time comes that I need that knowledge, I will be far enough that I will have the knowledge to accomplish it. And that I have to swallow my fear and just try. Even if I fail, it's not the end of the world. And I have never failed yet. So to all those who are going through the same thing, **know that it's temporary, and you don't need to be afraid**. You're not the first one to get your PhD, and it won't be your last.

Hope the end of your 2018s are filled with happiness, relaxing, and lots of FOOD.",18,256,290.12638409691004,GradSchool
Why grad school feels bad and a few things that have worked for me to counteract the academic madness,"This was something I posted as a comment in a different sub. Helping others through their stress, explaining the problems of grad school, and how to overcome them make me feel better about the constant grind. Hope it helps someone else too!

Grad school, at least for STEM fields, is particularly brutal due to the lack of a measuring stick. You might be Killin it. It might be Killin you. There's no way to tell bc once you're done with course work, the only thing to mark success is your project which is a fucking nightmare to use as a measuring stick. The alternative is constant comparisons to others which will completely undermine your own development.

Your project might be super difficult, cutting edge, but require a ton of work. Someone else's project might be cutting edge but already wrapping up. So despite working your ass off, you only get 1 publication whereas they *seem* to get 6. And while you're in the thick of it, those two numbers are all you can see. You might hate the constant comparison within your mind but you cant escape it when nothing seems to be working. So you wake up every morning, go to lab, fail most days, and constantly wonder why your project isn't working;

""I'm fucking up."" ""This is my fault."" ""If they were in charge it would be finished by now."" ""I probably need to relax and then I'd have a fresh mind to tackle this."" ""I should definitely work more, a real hard 24 hour push of lab work would get this project done."" ""'I'm just being a baby and need to get the work done."" ""Maybe I need a break like my SO tells me."" ""Fuck I'm lazy, I bet my boss hates me bc I'm never here""-your inner monologue as you hit hour 10 on a Friday

Meanwhile, you might actually be 90% done with your research. The rxn tomorrow might actually work and suddenly that wall is gone and everything pushes forward to the end. You won't know it's the end, it'll just suddenly be. If there was a status bar to actually mark progress, grad school wouldn't be so hard bc you could rest easy knowing you arnt undermining your own efforts and that your hard work is paying off.

Some advice on how to be proactive and prevent the academic madness. These things have worked for me but I didnt get these things fully going until my third year.

1. Start counselling when you begin grad school. It really helps to have someone outside of your life to just bitch at without wondering if you just depressed them.
2. Keep a small notebook. Write down every accomplishment when you achieve it. Hell, write down anything that makes you happy. Sounds corny but at one point you are gonna ask yourself ""what have I ever accomplished?""
3. A) Have a physical hobby of some sort. Run, lift, bike, do something physical with your body to keep your hormones level. B) Have a hobby completely separate from grad school. You probably can't get this until after your exams but it's a necessity after year 2. Do something with your friends that you all enjoy that isn't work or alcohol related. My group goes rock climbing 2-3 times a week.
4. Keep the end goal in mind. The end goal is to get a PhD. Publications would be nice, fellowships would be nice, and awards would be nice. Getting the D is the real goal though.

And keep in mind, every year comes with its own set of problems. There is not a single year that is most challenging, they all come with a hurdle. With each year you dive deeper into the shit, it gets murky there and easy to forget who, what, when, where, and why you are there. Do everything you can to keep focus on those W's.",40,253,27.004891041354448,GradSchool
Grad school has destroyed my passion for the field. Anyone else?,"I'm close to finishing up my MS in electrical engineering, and at this point, I am no longer interested in being an engineer. Getting to this point has taken a huge toll on my mental and physical well being. Had a few times where I ""collapsed"" from the stress and, while I've been able to recover multiple times, my outlook on what a life-long career would be like in this field just seems depressing. I feel like I've given too much to this degree to stop before I finish but I also feel too stripped of my passion to keep going or at least continue on in the field after I graduate. I want to make use of my degree or else what was the point of suffering through this? I've been so encapsulated with my work that I can't think of anything else I should be doing instead; I just feel like it shouldn't be engineering. Has anyone felt this by the end of their program? Has anyone found a way to refresh their interest in their field or got insight on how to handle this kind of situation?

&#x200B;

TL,DR: I'm nearing the end of my masters program and hate my field. Any advice on how to handle this so I don't ""waste"" my degree?",72,255,89.15057391172482,GradSchool
Thanksgiving break has broken me,"Been holding this in all week and need to get this off my chest. I've spent this whole week lying to myself/family members that I'm happy and enjoy being in grad school. Here's the real truth: the sheer amount of work I've had to do this week, the guilt of not spending more time with my family, and the fact that I've had enough time to sit and think about what I'm trying to accomplish here has made me realize that grad school is crushing my spirit and leaving me hollow and so unbelievably unhappy. Hopefully winter break will be different and I'll actually start feeling like an actual person again. I'm so tired and it's hard to see the light through all of this.",20,254,326.26982159691,GradSchool
So long chumps,"I've seen things you people wouldn't believe. Grad students carrying beer kegs onto the roof. I watched LEED electrons glitter in the dark. All those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain. Time to graduate.",9,254,538.1768354857988,GradSchool
When your supervisor asks you how your project is going,,8,253,817.1907938191323,GradSchool
Haven't quite achieved enlightenment yet but I'm getting there.,,7,255,828.6669512265396,GradSchool
Government shutdown means delays in reviewing NSF (and all other govt agencies) fellowship applications :/ Fingers crossed this ends soon...,,33,253,282.99268039320634,GradSchool
"TIL about Anatoli Bugorski, a physics grad student in Russia who, in 1978, accidentally passed his head through a high-energy proton beam. He survived (albeit with occasional seizures, half his face paralysed and partial deafness) and went on to complete his PhD. If he can graduate, so can we!",,20,256,994.4588030783915,GradSchool
It’s OK to quit your Ph.D. (Article in Science Magazine describing motivations to quit your PhD and individual stories),,40,254,99.9837104857989,GradSchool
Is Academia broken?,"Pretty much the title.

Every grad student I know works too hard for too little re-compensation. Healthy work-life balance seems as real as woodland faeries. When put to the balance our care for the undergraduate students we teach seem to outweigh that of the tenured professor 9 times out of 10. We spend weeks or months at a time grinding away with no real achievements to show for it. Publish or perish is really real, not just alliteratively so. And it doesn't look much better for post-docs or young assistant profs.

Does academia only reward a single type of person? The person happy to simplemindedly and doggedly pursue their academic endeavors? The type of person who thrives under absolute constant stress? Isn't that foolish? Shouldn't there be a way to structure the system so that there are multiple paths toward building knowledge?

Or is it just me and the peers I've spoken with? I can accept that. I just want to know.",170,254,252.1161063191322,GradSchool
I successfully defended last week,"I could write a very long post and I started to but I think here is what I really want to say. If I have any wisdom as someone who is just about done, it's this: make time for the things you love outside of grad school. My darkest times over the last 4 years were when I let the stress of grad school get in the way of my social life. I crammed a lot of work into my final year in order to finish when I did, and I was largely able to do that because I started doing things I love again: performing improv, working on writing my own stage show, writing poetry. All things that had nothing to do with grad school. Without those, I definitely would've burnt out this final year and wouldn't have made it. I should also note here that I thought about dropping out several times. If things are really bad, nothing is worth destroying your mental health. I'm not trying to say that finding good things to do outside of grad school will solve all of your problems. It helped me a lot, but if things are really, really bad, then you might need to take other action.

It's been a wild ride. I am grateful for having been subbed to /r/GradSchool during this time. Even without posting too much, it's been great to see this community and hear other people's stories.

In 3 weeks I start a job as a data scientist. I'll be working at a company I interned at last summer, so I have a pretty good idea of what to expect and I am very, very excited about the work I'll be doing there. Knowing that I'll no longer be living on a grad school stipend, I recently moved into a one bedroom and am living roommate-free for the first time in a long time. It really feels like a new chapter of my life is beginning and I'm so excited. The last 4 years have been really, really tough. But it did result in me ending up in a place where I'm really happy.",24,253,470.3251688191322,GradSchool
When me_irl hits too close to home.,,20,247,1202.8238493746878,GradSchool
I only got into my safety school 4 years ago and it turned out great,"Congratulations to all the people posting that they got accepted to their first/second choice programs. I found myself being a little jealous since I only got into my last choice when I started 4 years ago. This led to some reflecting on my experiences since then and I'm not actually sad about it. I joined a research group in an area that I'm really interested in, and have had a very productive and enjoyable, though stressful, time.

Would I have been more successful getting accepted to my top choice school? Maybe. I just wanted to share this to say that getting into your last choice is not a cause for despair, it's still a great accomplishment and good job for being ambitious.",27,246,268.1757128006137,GradSchool
(Real) Author Contributions... [OC],,23,250,525.0991734487618,GradSchool
I defended my PhD today!,"And although I only lurk here for the most part, this community definitely helped support me. So thank you all for being awesome.",31,250,812.0817197450582,GradSchool
Imposter syndrome be like,,5,250,1395.8626688191323,GradSchool
"I hate when someone in my cohort says ""this is a bullshit degree anyway"".","I am in a public health masters program and many of my classmates are planning on going on to medical school afterwards. Because of it, they feel the MPH is ""a bullshit degree"". I really detest when I hear this. For one, it makes me think ""so why are you here?"". But more so, it just sucks to hear. I am the first in my family to get any sort of degree beyond a high school diploma, so being here now is an absolute honor. My parents worked so hard for me to be here today. I am proud of my (soon to be) degree, even if it is in a field that pays a little less than others. I have worked hard for this and to hear that it's ""bullshit"" is... well... bullshit.

It probably doesn't help that I heard this time and time again during my undergrad years (since I majored in sociology). At the end of the day, I know that classmates thinking the MPH is ""bullshit"" does not make it so, and I am really just venting about it. But I still wish they had a little more gratitude and respect for the education. Honestly, I wish qualitative fields in general got more respect.",68,248,469.0359327080211,GradSchool
Update: I got 4.0 on the research paper I thought was garbage,,14,251,493.69081696728034,GradSchool
Dear grad students that mentor undergrads:,"This past summer I was lucky enough to get a spot in a lab at my university, and I'm still there (and applying into the masters program). The amount of patience, guidance, wisdom, and moral support I have received from a handful of grad and post doc students in the lab is absolutely invaluable. I cannot even begin to thank them enough, they consistently go above and beyond. They've helped me with grad school applications, GREs, my coursework, befriending my professors, life advice, moral support, 
editing papers/grants, just about everything. Not to mention the superhuman amount of patience it takes to train someone to do lab work for the first time.

SO my point here is if you are a grad student mentoring an undergrad, don't underestimate the influence you have and the difference you make. And if you are a mentor like the aforementioned students, THANK YOU. You are the real MVP for taking the time to give a shit on top of all of your other responsibilities, and I appreciate the hell out of you! ",25,248,673.2806665043174,GradSchool
Maybe this will lift your spirits during finals.,,4,250,1034.224833170984,GradSchool
Elsevier is investigating hundreds of peer reviewers who might be manipulating citations by inappropriately using the review process to promote their own work.,,30,248,33.02776141172482,GradSchool
"It's over, I'm done! See ya later, asterisk!","Last spring, I was supposed to defend but a committee member didn't like what she saw. So I rewrote and rewrote. She dropped off the committee. 

Then someone else on the committee demanded more rewrites. So I wrote and wrote and wrote. 

And now, finally, it's over. I'm done. I'm a PhD. 

To those of you in the darkest part of your experience, keep at it. Chip away and don't lose faith in yourself. ",15,251,318.2504697450581,GradSchool
My first first-author publication was accepted (with minor revisions)!,"This is also my first outright publication where my name is listed as an author. *And* it will be published in the ""special issue"" for the journal in my field! It took several months of writing while also balancing grad school part-time and a full-time job (both in my field). So, needless to say, I'm pretty psyched! I'll take all of the revisions I can get since I know this will help me be a better author in the future.",13,250,575.5376572450582,GradSchool
Cried in my advisor’s office because he told me to stand up for myself,"I’m a TA in my department, doing RA duties that I felt might be inappropriate (sending article summaries and notes to faculty). My advisor took “my side” and said that these issues were borderline unethical, depending on how the profs were using my summary/notes. 

So my advisor and I had a talk about how I need to be assertive, even in hierarchical positions where people have power over you. I cried. I’m not assertive, I don’t stick up for myself. Having conversations that including talking about co-authorship and asking how my notes/summaries will be used scares the SHIT out of me. My advisor now knows that I fear standing up to people. 

So I feel like a baby because I just cried in front of him. I’m supposed to be strong, not show weakness, etc. Not what faculty look for when they write rec letters.

I’m a first year MA student. Didn’t realize that I’d have to do the “tough stuff” so soon. ",54,245,246.16684705987296,GradSchool
I officially submitted my final MSc thesis 1 hour and 33 minutes ago,"With 4 minutes to spare before the deadline.

47,775 words,
241 pages ,
412 project hours spent working on it in total since January

I've been doing my MSc part time for the past few years while working full time in a different discipline during the day. This was a steep learning curve for me and I had to defer a year of my studies in between due to a family bereavement. I have so many emotions right now 

I'll have my final defence in 2 weeks but for now I'm going to sleep before I go to work in 7 hours and take a few days off preparing!

I haven't slept more than 2-3 hours a night in such a long time, I don't know what to do with myself and I'm actually surviving on pure adrenaline right now because I pulled an all nighter last night.

For anyone struggling, hang in there! You can do this, you are worth it, you are good enough. I've had plenty of times at 2am over the past few years where I've had the same doubts, but hitting that submit button - made it all worth it!",25,245,57.94151141172482,GradSchool
OMG is it really done?!,"I just defended my thesis successfully! I'm still in disbelief. Are you sure I don't need to collect more data or edit my paper or fix my figure? 

It's been the hardest thing I've ever done in my life, but I lucked out with an incredible adviser and very supportive family and friends. 

You guys here have been a great help. I get inspiration from ever post here about people finishing grad school and can't believe I am here now. 

I'm going to sleep now for the next 48 hours bye!",24,246,70.2936178932063,GradSchool
Purdue didn’t properly communicate our pay changes and now we’re all struggling to pay rent,,57,244,114.04159243024334,GradSchool
"I graduated. My advisor called me ""the true scientist"" during presentation introduction.","There is nothing else I would rather hear. Made me feel so validated I could print ""happy"" on balloons and let them fly.",17,243,418.83243733765073,GradSchool
"Farewell, asterisk!","Successfully defended my PhD, and that asterisk is gone!!!!",15,246,7.265469745058153,GradSchool
Some holiday reminders,"To everyone taking a break for the holidays: remember to disconnect from work as much as you can. Mental breaks are precious and important; don't feel bad about it.

To everyone who's working over the holidays: we hope you can find good ways to relax occasionally. We know the struggle of working over breaks and hope that it'll be worth it.

Cheers. ",23,246,304.2485831709841,GradSchool
Postdoc Me Now (Don't Stop Me Now science parody),,23,242,355.2786757635767,GradSchool
"A PhD should be about improving society, not chasing academic kudos | Julian Kircherr | Higher Education Network",,25,246,432.2783516895026,GradSchool
In case anyone needs to see this today.,,27,247,963.1783979857989,GradSchool
Made this cross stitch for my Italian friend who just defended his PhD!,,6,242,1086.457935022836,GradSchool
Dealing with breakup during PhD,Boyfriend of 4+ years broke off the relationship unexpectedly (to me). I am currently a phd student but precandidacy. I haven't been able to do any of my work since the break up on thurs . I do have a counseling appointment but not for a few days. I feel like I can't do anything. I can't eat. I can't get out of my bed. He is fine and going on with life. Does anyone have any advice to get the work done? Feeling overwhelmed and terrible.,97,242,8.275249837650744,GradSchool
Is anybody else dealing with constant memory loss? I forget anything that isn’t my class material including my address and schedule,"screams loudly into pillow because I constantly look really stupid in front of my classmates

edit: okay it is really comforting to know I am not alone. Yeah it must be stress, which is annoying because not remembering things is causing stress",50,240,23.879138726539633,GradSchool
"Yesterday, I lost my star","I defended my thesis yesterday... successfully. Aside from some minor corrections about restructuring some paragraphs and clarifying some explanation, nobody questioned my methodology or anything. I overprepped obsessively - I practiced my presentation three times the night before and twice on the day of. In the defense, everything just flowed - I was able to immediately understand the the questions that referred to specific diagrams and tables and provide relevant responses. I was able to answer questions that were only tangentially related to my thesis.

[... and suddenly, I had taken that childhood dream which I never expected to be possible, and turned it into a reality.][hadfield]

The odd thing is that I don't feel too differently than the way I felt when I was working on this. I think that's a sign that you're ready. So to anyone else who's doubting their ability to get through the defense: I know the impostor syndrome is real and I deal with it every day (even at my job now, from which I had to take time off for this defense), but take it from me - I've been through the tunnel whose lights were switched off; you got this. You can do this. You will do this. And if that light at the end of that tunnel is really broken, you'll light up the whole damn thing with your smile, because you will have passed your defense

**tl;dr**: I passed my thesis defense. I have minor corrections. You can do it too

[hadfield]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zo62S0ulqhA&t=974s",8,242,63.303583170984076,GradSchool
Passed my defense!,"I know it's not as important as the Ph.D posts, but this morning I defended my oral defense for my masters degree! Now I just have to edit my written portion and I can happily move on to my Ph.D program this fall!!",16,244,189.21248363394704,GradSchool
"If you're going to put a section titled ""Lab Fun"" on your academic website and leave it empty, I suppose it's a message the lab isn't about fun?",,13,242,647.2367660413545,GradSchool
"The day that makes it all worth it... I passed, got my doctorate!","So after some very difficult years throughout my PhD I had my final viva exam, passed, and people have spent the rest of the time calling me Dr. 

There were plenty of times when I honestly thought I wouldn't make it to the end, but with the support of friends and family it all came together in the end.",19,246,1001.2133979857988,GradSchool
IT WORKS!!!!!! BUAHAHAHA,"Absolutely nothing to say here except this stupid, piss-ass annoying piece of code that I've been trying to fix since August *finally* started working about 5 minutes ago and I needed to share (my victory lap around my empty apartment felt slightly hollow).

Fuck this feels good.  Now if you'll excuse me I'm going to go brag to my fish, and possibly my landlady.",42,243,1460.1885253006137,GradSchool
"""Should you be home?"" - Posted by our PI in our lab, useful for all.",,22,243,1952.3232012265398,GradSchool
24-hour write-a-thon — starting this thread to keep myself accountable!,"I'm starting a 24-hour write-a-thon to motivate myself to finish my MA thesis draft, starting NOW (1:00pm PDT).   


I'm hoping that this thread will keep me accountable; I'm going to update every few hours with how much I've accomplished (even if no one reads!).   


Would appreciate some encouragement!",59,242,79.12696280061371,GradSchool
How I use Bullet Journals as a Ph.D. Student,,50,244,84.99881465246555,GradSchool
MRW I walk into a lab and some sophomore lab hourly asks me what I'm doing.,,24,240,740.819208170984,GradSchool
"Tufts Ph.D. ‘Punished’ for Reporting Adviser’s Fabricated Research, Lawsuit Claims",,20,237,48.187229004317416,GradSchool
"For anyone looking at Grad Schools, having your grandmother message the department Facebook page for information is not a good tactic.","I run our program’s social media (an archaeology program in an anthropology department) and I woke up this morning to a message on the Facebook page from a grandmother telling me about her granddaughter that just graduated as an archaeology major at another university and wants to apply to grad school. She wanted information about the costs and opportunities in my department and to please email them to her (the grandmother not the granddaughter). 

I politely responded to have her granddaughter contact the DGS of the anthro department. I am sincerely hoping this is just an over eager grandmother who wants to help without consulting the granddaughter, but 
doesn’t realize this is not the right way to do things and not a student who asked her grandmother to find her information. 

Either way though, if you are thinking of applying to grad programs, please make sure you contact them yourselves rather than through a family member and to do so through email, not Facebook messages!

Edit: because a lot of people seem to think I am taking this seriously, really think a student asked her grandma to look into this for her and it is a serious tactic, or don’t see that this is a sweet grandma trying to help her granddaughter, I do. This was not supposed to be a serious post, but more tongue in cheek about a kind of funny message I have and how so many family members don’t get how grad school works but want to help. I am not saying anything to the department about this so they will never know if the student applies that her grandma did this.",54,241,131.4750415043174,GradSchool
"Elsevier forces Swedish ISP to block SciHub, so they also block Elsevier.",,19,237,344.3654581709841,GradSchool
Is anyone here absolutely swamped?,"I haven’t left my apartment in two days, except to get a pizza that was my lunch and dinner. I’ve been busy reading papers, writing...please, someone tell me I’m not alone here. I feel like death, and it seems like work keeps piling up. ",68,235,338.10013409691,GradSchool
Required reading assignment in my department (emphasis added). And people wonder why graduate students struggle with depression and anxiety.,,62,240,922.0038725228359,GradSchool
"LPT: If you make a PowerPoint presentation, someone should not be able to read the slides and figure out the whole presentation.",,37,238,182.49790030061374,GradSchool
When you have writer's block and ask your toddler to name your new scientific algorithm,,16,240,1338.5078308561692,GradSchool
So I made an ass of myself to my graduate advisor,"Earlier today in a brief anxiety spell, I sent an email to my professor basically saying, ""I have no clue what I am doing and I don't think I will be able to complete my thesis, none of my codes are working correctly and I don't have the skills to fix them in time. So I will be dropping out of the Master's program. My apologies for wasting this time.""

However, their response was encouraging me to stay, basically saying that it is only a tiny part that isn't working correctly but even without that, we should have enough to write a thesis.

After calming down a bit, I realized I was a dumb-ass. But now I feel embarrassed to recall by desire to quit, and pride is preventing me from responding and agreeing to stay.

Dear god I am an idiot",54,237,28.184370208021114,GradSchool
My last week of grad school - I'd like to leave any useful information I've learned.,"Hello great people of r/GradSchool, 

&#x200B;

I've lurked a bit over the last year and, at 40 years old, I should be finished with my master's degree this week. I am grateful for many of the posts I have read over the years and wanted to somehow express that gratitude. Some context so that you know whether to disregard this or not; I am a senior software engineer in advanced engineering in an emerging technology and my employer paid for 90% of my degree. I only paid anything out of pocket because I wanted to finish in 3 academic years. Please don't take that as a humble brag as I only want to provide a baseline if I say it was worth it. I will finish with a coursework master's in electrical engineering. I have a bachelor's in the same so it seemed logical.   


As I am typing on a wonderful mechanical keyboard that I discovered in my studies gazing upon the specialized paper, my favorite coffee cup, a fancy pencil, while listening to instrumental trance music in preparation to finish my last paper that is maintained on Overleaf and ""written"" in LaTeX. So, in no particular order, things I wish I knew.   


1. Tablets are useful for quickly going through academic papers. The insurmountable research that needs to be done was made easier for me with a Surface 3 tablet my wife won and never used. I was able to be physically present in the evenings with my family and get through a dozen papers by reading abstracts and eliminating them quickly.   

2. Student discounts even for old people. Yeah, look around, figure it out, and don't be ashamed. The craziest one I just got is an IKON ski pass. I called them to let them know that I am an enrolled student but would graduate before next term and they said ""time of purchase!"" Software like Adobe, random things like amusement, use your big brains to find them!   

3. Find the tools that bring you joy. I am 40 so this clicky keyboard and the wordless electronic music of prior decades feel comfortable to me. Be true to yourself and use the tools and methods that work for you.   

4. Clean your space. This may be only me but the office I created in my house to do all my work was a bit of a mess because of other work I was doing in the house. I spent a day between semesters and cleaned it - basically detailed the room - and my studies have felt better since.   

5. I got my first cavity of my life last year. Grad School is consuming. Let things fall off, don't let dental hygiene fail. We tend to over consume caffeinated, beverages and make other poor health choices. Do your best to mitigate the damage. If you manage to keep your life together while going through this ridiculousness my hat is off to you and I sincerely respect you and am impressed with you. I am just a common guy with a job and kids. My life is not really in order.   

6. Fraud syndrome. You guys post a lot about it, it is real. I am still not sure if I am at all smart or just lucky or if electrical engineering is actually really easy and I am lying to myself that it is hard. Maybe I am a fraud, maybe I am smart - I don't know. My wife beat this into me and she is the emotional type. How you feel about what you are doing is less important than the fact that you are actually doing it. If you are in grad school you got into grad school and, my fellow Redditors, if I can manage to do it you all can crush this.   

7. Group work sucks. They make you do it. Find collaborative tools that you like to use. Take advantage of anything that your university pays for like Google suite and get out ahead of the projects. Set up a shared drive and start the paper before anyone else can. Set the tone. I have found, in engineering at least, doing that mundane stuff is appreciated by other students.   

8. If you have to find your own group find people much older or younger than you. I learned more from group mates than professors.   

9. Get to know your professors, go to their office and say hi. Ask specific questions about their research. Grad school professors seem to hold sacred the tremendous latitude they have in subjectively grading things. Be a human to them. The weirdest thing that happened to me is that I went across country with my wife and kids for my wife's aunt's funeral. It fell during finals week but it was a take home final. I was open with the professor about this and he called me, he literally called me, and said my final was poor and asked me to redo it. I ended up with an A in the class. Your mileage may vary and that may be a ridiculous thing to share but just be human. Also, being old is an advantage in grad school. No offense to you young and beautiful people but age does bring a few privileges. :-)  

10. I don't know about anyone else but it felt like every single semester was its own game with its own rules. I was able to carry some skills from class to class but every semester was like starting over and I had to find a new routine that I learned just in time to finish.   


tl:dr; Old guy needs to finish last paper for grad degree, procrastinating.",38,239,176.60669659691,GradSchool
"I can finally remove the asterisk, but I only feel worse.","I’m a Dr now. A PhD. Pretty Huge... Disappointment, more like. The defense went fine - no revisions needed, but the private still felt brutal. I didn’t have much of an advisor for my five years so I didn’t reach out to my committee ever because I didn’t realize people cared about my work. But I still feel like... nothing. People ask if I feel different. Am I supposed to? I don’t. I didn’t land a job in academia this cycle, instead got a 1 year non renewable post doc in industry-esque to continue to delay the inevitable. What’s the point of Dr. if I’m not in academia? I feel more of a failure than anything.",42,233,184.50296974505815,GradSchool
Coping with constantly feeling like grad school is just several years of surviving and not really living?,"Maybe it’s just first-week-back blues, but I often get kind of beaten down with the idea that I’m in the middle of a years-long program where I’m constantly stressed and even when I do relax I feel guilt for not doing anything productive. 

I’m on an assistantship so I can afford to live, and I’m in a program where courses assign hundreds of pages of reading per week each. Combining that with lesson planning, grading, and teaching, I basically have no downtime whatsoever for an entire semester at a time, and even when I do, I ought to spend it doing things that need to be done like cleaning or laundry. 
I often find myself way too exhausted to do even simple things I enjoy like cooking or reading for pleasure. I don’t have time or money to do things I want to do like travel or go to a show I’d love to see. 

Basically it just feels like a relentless and constant cycle of things that need to be done, a lot of which require intense intellectual labor, with basically no reprieve or time to “live my life” or focus on myself. 

Don’t get me wrong, I like my field. I’ve been depressed before, so I know this isn’t what’s going on either. I’m just really tired and this grueling grad lifestyle doesn’t seem to let up, and I hate that by the time it’s over most of my twenties will have passed by as a blur of stress. 

Does anyone have any tips for coping with this feeling or not getting bogged down in it? ",38,239,277.69350215246556,GradSchool
Goodbye asterisk,Passed my dissertation defense last week!,16,236,549.3099489117249,GradSchool
me_irl,,20,239,1233.755296133947,GradSchool
Has anyone made the conscious decision to not make their PhD the epicenter of their life?,"Recently I switched advisors and had about 4 months beforehand where I was in limbo. Long story short, I had no research projects and there was a point at which I thought I would have to leave the program & my old advisor would try to screw my career (he had done this to a previous grad student). I essentially lost my sense of self and went into a severe depression. Now coming out of it, I realize my PhD was my \*entire\* life. All aspects of my life outside of school were brushed to the side and I felt so incredibly alone when I didn't have school to fill my time. At least in my program, it seems like there is an expectation of your PhD being all-consuming and I can't do that for 4 more years. I absolutely love what I'm researching and will still work my ass off. I can't imagine doing anything else, just not to the point where school is the only thing important in my life.",56,239,11.265099374687782,GradSchool
Submitted a formal grievance against my adviser,"So I've been advised by the School of Graduate Studies (SGS) to submit a grievance against my adviser.  I've been working with them for over a year to get my graduate program back on track and graduate. My adviser has demonstrated a a lack of knowledge about how the graduate program works, pursued lines of research separate from the lab to further his personal career, openly refused to go along with SGS timetables. During our committee meetings they'll ask me if I've submitted paperwork to him, I'll say I have, and he'll refute me. Then I'll provide the E-mail and he'll suddenly remember he's got that paperwork with him. At the moment things are so bad SGS has actually told me to step away from lab and research and just let the grievance process go forward. Thing are so far along that they're unsure if I can graduate or now, but now the focus is addressing issues with mentorship (or lack thereof) in the department.",29,235,130.21396511542852,GradSchool
ACCEPTED!!!,While in grade school I distinctly remember getting a C in my algebra class and being told I would not be placed in the advanced math courses in high school due to a high probability of failure. Today I received an acceptance letter from a graduate school to pursue a PhD in Physical Chemistry with a full tuition scholarship and a 26k a year stipend!!!,38,236,995.9177614117248,GradSchool
I feel like the multi-tasking is the worst part of grad school.,"Like trying to balance courses and TAing and research. And especially within research, there can be so much going when you're trying to finish writing up one experiment and starting data collection on another at the same time. And also the the little extra things like writing grant applications or preparing posters/slides for conferences. Like I feel like I wouldn't be feeling so stressed if I could just focus on one thing at a time. 

 I feel like my work in all areas is suffering because I'm stretched too thin. Like for example, this past week I had an exam to study for and a research report to submit to my advisor. And I feel like I did poorly on the exam and I know that report draft was garbage because there literally just was not time to give both things the attention they deserved. 

Anybody have any good advice for managing this?",39,234,7.378409559872968,GradSchool
"If you are a first generation student, how do you cope when your family or friends who ""just don't get it"" are not supportive?","I am a first generation student, and the first person in my family to ever pursue a doctorate. Increasingly, I find myself extremely frustrated and angry with my family and friends for not understanding that this isn't some bs degree that just requires the bare minimum of work. 

How do I get them to understand that this is really difficult? I feel resentful because they can blow off steam after work and don't have the same crazy schedule that I do, so they don't understand what I'm going through and are rarely supportive. Any advice?",68,236,19.38992576357667,GradSchool
Just call me Doctor!,"Successfully defended yesterday!!! Was definitely way more nervous than I should have been, but that made me over prepared. Just some revisions to my written dissertation and that’s it!",13,237,198.7989188191322,GradSchool
Overly Honest Methods,,24,235,2469.5895785413545,GradSchool
First published piece!!!,"Quick excited post since my co-author and I just heard back. After 3 years, sending it to 5 journals (2 desk rejects for 'that's not the kind of piece we're looking for right now'), and three rounds of R&Rs for this most recent journal, I'm finally a published author!! It's such a huge relief and I'm going to make a nice dinner for myself and my partner tonight in celebration.",13,231,198.1189303932063,GradSchool
I got an email from a student today...,"...thanking me for being a great TA this semester, for taking the time to help, for making time in my schedule to meet outside of office hours, and saying that she credits her A grade due to the time I've spent with her. I'm amazed, feel so touched, and just wanted to add some good news to this sub in a stressful time.

To everyone going through the stress of this period, there are moments where it's worth it! You got this!",11,234,307.9050762265396,GradSchool
This is how it feels to be writing over the summer,,7,236,442.14942807839145,GradSchool
Proud lab mom,"I was in charge of our summer student this year, the first time I’ve really been the in-lab mentor to another student. They started out being so petrified of science and research they could barely string a sentence together about the work or pick up a pipette properly. 

Today they presented their work and fielded questions like a pro, and I’m just so darn proud! 

Is this what mentoring is like?? Because I like this.",16,229,82.22318965246556,GradSchool
When applying for a faculty position,"I am junior faculty at an R1 and my department is currently doing a search. This is my first time on the inside of such a process and it has been very eye opening. I thought I'd share some tips and maybe some of you can contribute your own. I'm at an R1 in the US.

\-Don't begin your letter, ""Dear sirs..."" Yes, this should be obvious. But apparently it is not. Your letter should be addressed to whoever the chair of the search committee is, or if that information is not available, you say ""Dear Members of the Search Committee"", or something along those lines.

\-Do use letterhead. At least in the US- this is common practice and suggests a level of professionalization. If you don't have a current institutional letterhead, create your own. If you are a grad student, you should be able to use your department's letterhead. Most schools will have a place on their website where you can access things like the standardized letterhead and images for business cards- it is not difficult to put that together on your own.

Include all requested application documents. If the ad says they want a Cover Letter, CV, teaching statement, research statement, etc- include all of those things. You will not be considered without them. I was horrified at how many people only sent CVs to this job announcement. These were not given a second look, we immediately dismissed them. If you are not able to provide all the requested documents, do not apply to the position. This wastes everyone's time, including your own. 

The first few sentences of your letter should clearly state your current position and (unless you are applying for a senior scholar position) should specify when/where you did your PhD (or when it is anticipated): ""I am currently a Post Doctoral Researcher in the Department of X at the University of X. I completed my PhD in May, 2018 with the Department of X at the University of X."" It is annoying to have to search for this information throughout a cover letter-it should be the first thing you say after ""I am interested in the position as X in the Department of X at X University""

Proof-read the hell out of your cover letter. Then proof-read it again.

The way you approach a cover letter for a teaching position vs a research focused position is different. For a teaching focused position, your research is less important. You want to demonstrate some explanation of your research interests and goals, but the majority of the letter should be about your teaching experience and how you will contribute to the hiring department through teaching. This search my department is doing is for a teaching focused position- people who wrote at length about their research and barely mentioned teaching were not considered. The opposite is true for a research faculty position- the hiring department will need you to teach and you should speak to how you can contribute to their course offerings- but the majority of what they will be interested in is your research potential.

The job market is so brutally competitive- one thing you can do to help yourself at least be looked at as a candidate is to follow these basic guidelines. You need to appear professional, organized, and as if you have your act together. That alone does not guarantee that you'll make the first cut- but it will mean you aren't dismissed outright.

Good luck to everyone on the market this year!",59,233,231.53604844876185,GradSchool
Is it normal to not hate your advisor?,"My supervisor is incredibly supportive and we get along very well. This does not seem to be the typical experience of others on this sub. 

Did I get extremely lucky, or are only negative comments voiced?

EDIT: thanks for all the comments! So much good and positivity :) thanks for giving hope that I’ll be able to find an equally supportive supervisor when I need to move on and post doc. ",80,232,389.65652298579886,GradSchool
After 3.5 years and a few setbacks I successfully defended my Masters thesis today!,Graduation is May 4th and I can’t wait!,19,232,580.179983633947,GradSchool
It will be okay.,"Right now I am really mad at myself. I'm mad because yet again I am having the feeling that I didn't get enough work done today. I'm mad that it ""only"" approaching midnight and I am falling asleep. I'm disappointed that I won't have enough to show my advisor in our meeting Friday. I'm frustrated at the constant feeling that there is so much to do and not enough time to get it done. I'm annoyed with myself and my seemingly inability to have the correct time management to avoid being a procrastinator.

&#x200B;

It's okay. It's okay that I might spend an evening only nibbling at all the different pieces of work. It's okay that I get the most done towards the end of the time frame. It's okay that my mind wanders away from me constantly. It's okay that I have to take frequent breaks to get it done. 

&#x200B;

You aren't a robot, you've made it this far (you're in grad school aren't you) and you always manage to get it done somehow. This is just the process. Trust the process (aka yourself). ",44,232,201.80367576357668,GradSchool
Big Twitter thread with dozens of stories of unsupported grad students. You are not alone. The problem isn't you. It's the system.,,18,232,203.9547405783915,GradSchool
The next time you're tempted to think that just one person can't make a real difference...,"...think about how much time it took me to redo all my tables when I discovered that one subject's data was accidentally excluded and I had to add that person back in.

Literally hours of doing things like changing ""mean = 8.12"" to ""mean = 8.13"". ",16,236,267.0582706709841,GradSchool
You can do it.,,6,232,551.8686410413545,GradSchool
Update on “Professor Kissed Me” post...,"Edit: filled out a form with the National Women’s Law Center.

Here’s the original post: https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/cco7zs/professor_kissed_me_and_i_dont_know_what_to_do/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app

Heard back from my title ix office the other day, and they said they’re shutting down the investigation because they talked to my professor, and he said he intended the kiss to be friendly rather than sexual. As if that actually matters; the fact is, regardless of intent, he did something no normal person would do to a student or coworker forty years younger than him, and he’s getting away with it. I politely explained to the office that I thought their decision was ridiculous, and in the same email I asked if the no-contact order between my professor and me still stands. Apparently, it doesn’t, and the title ix office completely ignored the other part of my email. 

I guess I expected at least a half-hearted investigation or a light slap on the wrist — something to keep up the pretense that my fancy fucking school gives a shit about its students. Now I get to spend the next year either avoiding this guy at department events or  making extremely uncomfortable small talk. Since the department chair knows about the so-called investigation and is friends with the rest of our faculty (one of whom got chased out of his last university for sexually harassing female students!!!), I have to wonder if I’ve been gossiped about, and how much everybody on faculty knows and what they think of me. Not that any of this matters since the title ix office decided my professor’s actions weren’t dire enough to create a hostile work environment.

Maybe I’m overreacting. I don’t know. I guess I’m wondering if I should just let it go or if I should demand to be taken seriously.",145,230,67.85629150431741,GradSchool
Got a job lined up for after I graduate!!,"Feels good man. 

I have to say I think I lucked out and got one of the best supervisors ever. He mentioned there might be a job opening, I said I’d be interested in applying, and 24 hours later he had reached out to the person doing the hiring and put in a good word for me. I set up an interview for last week, and just got the job offer this morning!! I am defending in August and will start full time in September.

This has lit a fire under my ass to make sure I finish on time!! 

Just wanted to share so that people know there are awesome supervisors out there, and if you always try to do your best in the lab/wherever you work, someone important might notice!!",22,233,491.3165229857989,GradSchool
I won 3 awards this week!,"Hey all, first year chem PhD student here.

Recently I was feeling really down, I was working my butt off in research, classes and teaching but my postdoc mentor complaining I wasn't producing results fast enough. He's been really pushing me to publish by the end of this year, and telling me to put the least effort possible into anything that isn't my project. 

I started to get pretty depressed, so I went to an international conference in my home country to see some old friends/professors plus get away for a few days. I gave a poster presentation while I was there and ended up winning a top award in my division! Lots of people were really excited by my results too \- I was so incredibly happy.

Fast forward a few days and I find out I won two more awards for academic excellence AND teaching from my department. I made a total net profit of $1450 from all of it, so I'm going to use the money to buy myself a nice new computer. Both my advisers were really happy as well and proud of my progress.

After all this news, my postdoc actually apologized for being so harsh on me \- we're going to formulate a plan on final experiments over the summer after I finish my last few exams. Things are finally starting to come together from my hard work and I'm excited to see how the next little while goes :)",15,229,493.1032359487619,GradSchool
What not to do in graduate school - Nature,,32,229,84.22358317098407,GradSchool
"The first international meeting on postgraduate mental health opens this week in Brighton, UK.",,1,230,153.27856002283593,GradSchool
"Me: ""I just want to give up on this review article. I don't think it will get published."" Wholesome PhD advisers: *Point out all the good they see, and tell me they know I can finish and publish it.*","I guess it is back to work...

I changed labs in my 4th year because of a very toxic relationship with my adviser. It is crazy how supportive my new co-advisers have been. I forgot how it felt to work under people who care and believe in me.",10,229,168.19205539320632,GradSchool
How Graduate Unions Are Winning—and Scaring the Hell out of Bosses—in the Trump Era,,42,230,319.21707854135445,GradSchool
Stuff that's worked for me in grad school: teaching edition,"Hey everyone!

Since my [last post](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/8x8hmu/heres_a_list_of_stuff_thats_worked_for_me_in_grad/) was well received, and the semester is coming up soon, I thought we could compile some advice on what has worked for us teaching wise.

Here's mine:

1.	**Admit when you don’t know.** Saying “I don’t know the answer to that. I’ll look it up and get back to you is totally fine as an answer. Don’t BS something that you don’t actually know. Students aren’t in your class for you to show off your knowledge; they are there to get actual answers and nuances around them.
2.	**Don’t reinvent the wheel.** The internet exists. Other people have probably taught the course you will. Ask for advice. I’ve gotten a ton of great resources like syllabi and rubrics from other grad students.
3.	**No matter your annoyance with the culture, respect the individual.** I work at a very white party school with a high acceptance rate. This is the antithesis of my undergraduate experience. I often feel negatively about aspects of undergraduate culture like skipping class and cheating. However, I do not take this out on individual students.
4.	**Most students are not like you.** You are in grad school, which means you felt a high affinity for your field and that you were a motivated student. This isn’t the case for all students. Not every one of them wants to go to grad school or even get an A in the class. Your job is to meet them where they are and walk them to somewhere better.
5.	**Check your own biases.** Make sure you aren’t giving more attention to the student who is like you; smart, always has the answer, passionate. I usually call on these students, once they’ve spoken once in class, after other students have spoken and I usually tell them explicitly (privately) that that is what I’m doing and invite them to discuss more with me in office hours. Make sure you’re also engaging a spread of students; you might not notice that mostly the front row or men or major students are speaking in the class.
6.	**Figure out a healthy amount of tangent.** This is especially true if you teach a discussion based course. A good amount of tangent doesn’t actually take time of away from learning, and it signals to the students your game for engaging their interests. However, if there’s just one student who won’t let something go (asking about how an assignment works or really wanting to talk about the DNA basis for race or something) tell them to meet you in office hours.
7.	**Switch it up.** I find my students have about a 15-20 minute attention span for one thing. Some people are such great lecturers that they can engage the class with just lecturing for the length of the class. I am not one of these people. I try to switch between lecture, discussion, group, and individual activities. 
8.	**Include multiple ways to learn, especially if they’re not how you do it.** My biggest mistake my first year was assuming everyone liked hands on learning, like me. I started introducing anonymous polling to start discussion, individual and group activities, and engagement with media to ensure I wasn’t just catering to myself.
9.	**Look for feedback but don’t take it personally.** I put out my own mechanism for feedback, asking about topics like the length of exams or what activities they enjoyed most. My formal evaluations (FCQs) sometimes turn back some dumb feedback (“ur hilarious” is one of the nicer ones). Take the good and constructive and reject the superfluous (especially because student evaluations tend to be racist and sexist). Not every student is going to like you, and that's fine.
10.	**If you’re a TA, speak up with your professor, but understand where they’re coming from.** A professor I TAed for once accidentally set a deadline for 125 short answer papers to be graded by 11 am, even though the final ended at 9 pm the night before. At first, I was worried telling him I couldn’t do it would make me look incompetent. However, trying to complete an impossible task would actually make me incompetent. Professors have a lot going on and a lot expected of them, so they may need you for many of the day-to-day operations of a class. Each professor will need different things from you, and will have a unique relationship with every TA.
11.	**Give the benefit of the doubt…usually.** When students tell me they were sick but they didn’t get a note from the doctor because it was closed and now they’re better, I let them slide. Same with familial tragedies such as funerals. I also recognize a student may have something that is disrupting their lives they don’t want to tell me (break up, mental health issues, family drama) so I give them a break unless it becomes a pattern. I consider them excused and I let them choose between alternate assignments or testing them on the material. I’ve had a fair amount students ask if they can miss tests to go to parties or other illegitimate excuses. I let them know it’s their choice to miss whatever they’d like, but that I can’t advise that they do. Similarly, but importantly, I teach on what I call “tough topics.” I let students know we’ll be talking about violence sexual assault, for example, the week before. I let them know that they don’t have to attend that day if they meet with me for an alternate assignment. I’ve had about 6 students take me up on it and they’ve done very well as a result.
12.	**Try to maximize every student’s experience.** I don’t round someone down from an A because I want a bell curve. I want each student to get the very best out from my course. Students who don’t do well in my class usually make an active choice not to. They’re skipping class or not studying or trying to cheat. However, a lot of students work very hard to get that C and I try to give them the resources possible to do so. I also have several free topic days at the end of the semester so students can dig into what they are most interested in.
13.	**Boundaries.** Try to email your students back within the business day, and own up when you don’t get back to them. Don’t stay up all night answering the same question in the syllabus. Spend all of office hours with a student only if there’s not other students waiting. A student once asked me why I couldn’t meet at her house on a Sunday and I explained to her what my job was. You have power over these students; you can be friendly, but I don’t hang out with them/add them on social media until after I’m not in charge of their grades anymore.
14.	**Don’t give your everything.** I give a lot to my students. I work very hard to cultivate a solid learning experience for my students. I read every word of their writing, but not more. I prep slides but I don’t spend more than an hour on them. I think not over-preparing gives students the space to direct their own learning in some ways. It also makes sure you’re actually doing research and sleeping.

Anyway, that's how I do it. If it's your first time teaching, you'll get through it! I find it's really rewarding and reminds me why I like what I do.

Edit: Another easy trick! I send a ""weekly email"" with announcements, upcoming deadlines, and the readings for the week. It works wonders.",22,230,425.1428192820952,GradSchool
Graduate Debt Comic,,23,231,747.237159559873,GradSchool
I graduated today,"I’ve been in this community since I joined reddit a few months back. I struggled with anxiety, self doubt, and imposter syndrome off and on. This community helped me feel less alone. 

To all of you dreaming of the end, you’re not alone. Grad school is hard but we were made to do hard things. You can do far more than you realize and you will get through this.

Thanks for being there, friends.",16,227,156.89417344876185,GradSchool
What are some simple but not obvious tools/practices/ideas that made your daily life as a grad student more productive and that you are super glad to have figured it out?,"Example (This is very primitive of me) - I got to know about citation managers only after writing my first paper using Word where I manually typed in all the references! It made all the difference. 

I am about to start grad school and thought of having a heads up. These may not necessarily be academic in nature. anything that made your grad life a notch better is welcome :) ",123,227,191.03596743024335,GradSchool
My advisor took the time to say he appreciates us,"It's Graduate Student Appreciation Week. There are events and stuff, but it doesn't usually feel special or anything. Instead, it feels more like a birthday when you're over the age of 25 (meh), and sometimes you forget it happened at all. 

However, we had a lab meeting this morning and my advisor took the time to individually thank each one of us, look us in the eye, and directly say ""I appreciate you."" April is always the roughest time of year, so it means a lot. 

I hid it well, but honestly almost cried. ",11,230,195.9130391895026,GradSchool
God I can't wait for the summer.,"The thought of working in the summer keeps me going on weeks like this.  

Four whole months of pure research uninterrupted by TAing, courses, snowstorms and a campus full of undergraduates. I'm going to be a machine and bang out nearly all of my research so I can have a draft of my thesis done by New Years.  Yeah I'm going to be distracted by warm temperatures and sunshine, but I'll be sure to balance it.  Maybe write at an outside table at a coffee shop?

Can I just fast-forward to then?",30,232,259.0464766895026,GradSchool
About to go into my thesis defence - wish me luck!,"Will update with the grade I receive. Holy crap tho I'm so nervous right now, hope I don't panic

UPDATE: I GOT AN 8.5 / A+!!!",15,228,467.715921133947,GradSchool
No Hobo Grad Student,,16,226,2462.1359905783916,GradSchool
Does anyone else feel like their PhD thesis is underwhelming?,"I'm in the middle of writing and I'm just feeling a little underwhelmed by my work. It's a new method for an application area and I believe it's impactful enough, as people in this area seem to be interested and my committee seems satisfied.  

However, during the writing of the thesis it just feels very underwhelming. When I think about a PhD thesis, I imagine a huge document with dozens of proofs, and a very high level of technical complexity. This isn't like that at all. An undergrad could understand the mathematical parts. Being an application area, there are zero proofs.

It just feels like I'm cheating out the PhD by picking an application area which doesn't require me to provide a lot of theoretical rigor. Can anyone relate?",33,231,23.154995208021116,GradSchool
On cloud nine after teaching my first class :),"After getting accepted as a graduate assistant in my MA program, I was SO anxious about teaching my first class. I didn’t get to assist a professor first, just got thrown into teaching two of my own classes....so I was freaking out. Had no prior experience, nervous about public speaking, sensitive about only being a few years older than my students...

But it was AMAZING. I love it. My students gave me great anonymous feedback and I realized I’m so comfortable standing in front of a class.

So I just wanted to give everyone who might be in a similar position this advice: relax. Deep breaths. You’ll be okay. :)",17,224,50.01618733765075,GradSchool
Whoever suggested the app 'Forest' thanks you! It's has made me so much more productive within a short period of time (mostly by keeping me off Reddit),,23,229,183.40948594876184,GradSchool
The sweet frustration and painful relief of being right.,"I observed a wierd thing in my data 2 years ago. I got super excited and preceded to tell my PI we need to figure this out. 

He obliged and had an expert look at my data, who took two seconds and told me it was artifact. My PI believed him and we left it there. 


For 2 years I've been ignoring this ""artifact"", constantly pointing it out to my PI and he always just kinda shrugs it off. 

Yesterday we went to a symposium with a bunch of my PIs higher-ups, and one of them presented data with the EXACT SAME ARTIFACT showing it is a physiological phenomenon. 

My PI just emailed me a bunch of protocols for me to do and says we should check my data for the thing because it's probably not artifact. 

*inhale* 

*exhale* 

",16,229,230.3455391895026,GradSchool
Anybody have success at treating grad school like a 9-5 job?,"I'm a first year Psych PhD student who just started this fall, and because my commute is a little far, I try to beat traffic by arriving to campus everyday before 8am. I get some stuff done in the morning when I first arrive, then go to class, and then spend the rest of the afternoon getting assignments and research things done. I usually leave campus by 4. I very rarely do any work once I get home or on weekends.

So far, essentially having a regular 8 hour day has been working out well, and I feel like I have a solid work-life balance. But I'm afraid it's only working out this way because it's just the first year and things are going to get much harder.

Anyone been successful at keeping up such a schedule? If not, what is your schedule like?",87,226,329.3833169672804,GradSchool
"In honor of my cake day, here is a cake my fiancee made me when I got my first publication!",,7,228,902.1926572450582,GradSchool
My PhD partner is upset that I can't do maths,"Hi all, hope it's appropriate to post this here.

&#x200B;

My partner of 5.5 years (living together for 2) has always seemed very happy and settled in our relationship. We share common interests, common values and ideologies, we support each other, we are great friends, and we trust and care deeply about each other. He dropped a bombshell on Tuesday this week that he had developed feelings for a fellow PhD student. However he said his feelings for me were  stronger and he wanted to work on our relationship, so he set up boundaries with the other woman so we could try to rebuild things.  We are going to couples counselling together to try and work things out.

&#x200B;

He said he thinks part of the reason he likes this girl is because he can talk to her about maths, and she understands the mathematical side of his PhD. He said he has been wondering recently if it's a dealbreaker that I don't understand maths when it's his biggest life passion. However, I've always supported his PhD, listened to him talk about it for hours, and he has enjoyed trying to explain mathematical concepts to me in the past.

&#x200B;

I wondered if anyone has experience of dating someone who they know will never fully understand their PhD and if that's a dealbreaker. I feel like my partner is chasing after an unrealistic expectation of the perfect relationship, but he has three PhD friends who have said they can understand why it concerns him seriously that I can't do maths. I just don't know if this is a problem that is serious enough to end the otherwise good relationship.

&#x200B;

Edit: my bf is not an asshole. This short version doesn't convey the whole story.

&#x200B;

Edit two: okay, he broke up with me shortly after I wrote this so perhaps a lot of you were right... I mean ultimately he's a good person but he certainly was an asshole in this situation, and I didn't deserve to be treated this way.",169,229,122.20301604135445,GradSchool
I don't want to go back,"Today is my last day of spring break. I took a nice trip to visit old friends and made myself not do any work so I could be fully present and maybe actually relax for two seconds. It worked and I had just about the best week I could have had. And now I am back home seeing all the things that need to get done and knowing that once I go back to campus tomorrow I won't have any time to do any of it. And on top of that I will probably have to bring work home with me all week to get everything done. And on top of that I told my PI that I would try to do some very time consuming sample processing once I got back from spring break. I've only done that procedure one time before and I had someone helping me. This time I'll have to do it alone. I'm terrified and overwhelmed.

During my break I actually felt happy. I actually felt like me for the first time in months. And now everything has crashed back down and I hate it and I want to cry and I am so tired. I don't know what to do.",40,227,205.27720585616925,GradSchool
All your supervisor needs to do to give you a heart attack,,36,227,1349.590735948762,GradSchool
OFFICIAL ACCEPTANCE MEGA-THREAD! Post Your Acceptance Here For Celebration!,OFFICIAL ACCEPTANCE MEGA-THREAD! Post Your Acceptance Here For Celebration! ,503,221,214.3225993746878,GradSchool
Columbia Grad Students on Strike!,,50,224,539.3521248376508,GradSchool
Lego Grad Student landed an AP job!,,10,225,599.3164419672804,GradSchool
Do y’all ever feel super pretentious when talking about your research?,Or is that just me? I feel so insecure about coming off as too ambitious and pretentious that I end up not taking the leap of throwing ideas out there and making progress on my concepts and theory development. Is this a common feeling of feeling super pretentious?,36,225,6.832437337650745,GradSchool
Adjusting to circumstances,,7,223,682.6737915043175,GradSchool
With my PhD in an interdisciplinary field.,,34,225,1736.2563030783915,GradSchool
I did it!,"This morning, I submitted my final paper for my Master’s Degree. I’m so fuckin stoked!!!!!!",12,225,71.29193965246556,GradSchool
Grad school is... doing double shots of vodka after your dissertation committee meetings as a survival mechanism.,What's yours?,61,226,195.04209011542852,GradSchool
When I feel like my data is finally taking me to some sort of a coherent conclusion,,5,227,956.0456665043174,GradSchool
Procrastination is something that a lot of graduate students struggle with. This is probably the most comprehensive guide on the internet on how to beat it.,,23,219,195.3914188191322,GradSchool
This resonate with anyone else too?,,11,220,319.9335368746878,GradSchool
"Thanks Pinterest, good suggestions. Very helpful.",,18,221,982.052472059873,GradSchool
Finally quitting my PhD. Good riddance.,"After leaving a group to join another one only to be kicked out for what I think are flimsy reasons that weren't properly communicated, I've decided that academia is a hellhole that cultivates the absolute scourge of humanity, especially with regards to faculty. The longer I continue to stay at this university, the more I'll just grow to hate the shit out of everyone, and I just won't want to work with people. I thought I could put myself through it despite mental illness, but apparently I don't have the fire in my belly for research to do that, and it's better that I recognize this before I see myself as the enemy of everyone I'm surrounded by. There are many things to do outside of academia, and I hope we all take some time to look at what's out there, whether it's developing a new set of skills or trying a new field altogether.

Academia is a fucking cult, and the sooner I leave it before buying into their unhealthy attitude, the better. If you have a good experience with your department, then I just hope that mine has something to learn from yours about helping students succeed as opposed to making them feel worthless.",87,218,85.37089798579889,GradSchool
TIL a Halloween LaTeX package exists,"I will definitely try and incorporate a witch sum or great pumpkin from the [halloweenmath package](https://ctan.org/pkg/halloweenmath) into an upcoming assignment :D

https://i.redd.it/j6qls0mvwdt11.png",19,222,360.1894396524656,GradSchool
I've refined the All-Knowing Triangle to reflect Grad School,,52,221,752.4955739117248,GradSchool
I submitted my PhD thesis today!,"Today was always going to be the day, and today was the day indeed. I stayed up for 36 hours prior, writing until the very last minute. I submitted it knowing that there were mistakes in there that I didn't have time to fix. But it's all OK, because I'll have a chance to fix them during corrections. I honestly don't give a fuck! 

Thanks everyone! Time for a beer and a sleep. ",12,220,820.6335600228359,GradSchool
My students made me feel ancient today.,"My students are setting up a movie marathon list for their upcoming fall break & I overheard them talking about Harry Potter (books & movies). 

One of them referred to the book series as “ancient.” 

They also called several mid-2000 Disney movies “so old” and “ancient.” 
Excuse me while I go mourn high school 😂 ",46,223,341.25877993024335,GradSchool
My crystals today 🍑 💩,,47,221,362.19580539320634,GradSchool
"This sign would be appropriate for any lab, really",,4,216,757.9622174302433,GradSchool
We all make this kind of mistake at some point in grad school...,,21,219,1812.155573911725,GradSchool
Cringing at old data,"PhD student in biomedical sciences here.
I'm working towards that light at the end of the tunnel - dissertation writing, finishing papers, all that good stuff!
In this, I'm having to go back and dig through old data from years ago, and WOW. Talk about cringe worthy. My organization was mediocre, my lab notebook is almost worthless, and my experimental analysis is questionable at times (this is all unpublished data; it's ""that"" set of odds and ends experiments you haven't looked at since you first did them!). 

I want to go back and shake my past self for being careless (and now wasting my time) and for not listening to my PI relentlessly tell me to prepare every piece of data like it's going right into a paper. That's second nature now, so I guess that means this grad school thing worked after all! 

Hang in there, everyone (and keep a good lab notebook!) ",28,221,201.29463641172484,GradSchool
Speaking up a little can do a lot,"PhD student here. My department has a yearly overnight retreat. At said retreat, a specific faculty member harasses female students, yearly. He also is inappropriate outside the retreat but it is really bad there. Having now been to multiple and having been a target my first year (and traumatized) I finally wrote in the anonymous retreat feedback that “faculty that harass students should be banned from the retreat”. One comment, no names. That comment apparently was brought up at a faculty meeting which lead to a student meeting. That one comment and now we will be provided an anonymous survey to name the problem person and what we want done and that will be given to the department chair. 

When I sent the form in, I was angry and I was angrier because I was sure nothing would be done. Nothing big has been done yet but the fact that we are moving in a forward direction has finally given me peace of mind. 


This is a throwaway account and i’m also not sure if Professional is the right flair but I had to write it somewhere and I don’t want to talk to my fellow students so as to not ruin my anonymity.

edit: i think now they may have had the faculty meeting already planned",26,216,333.21367576357665,GradSchool
"TIL in 2007, ""Big Bang Theory"" set designers toured the apartments being used by current graduate students to see how young scientists really live. They did a faithful re-creation of the apartments, but after CBS tested the show, the sets were scrapped because they were too depressing.",,30,217,538.6942428932063,GradSchool
Proud to say that I was productive today,"I have been battling with severe depression and anxiety over the last year or two. As a result, my capacity for learning and critical thinking has started to dwindle. I've felt burnt out and exhausted since the start of my M.A. 

Today was one of the most successful and productive days that I have had in months. I spent 7 hours marking midterms, finished marking quizzes, wrote and submitted my thesis proposal (fingers crossed), responded to 6 emails, networked with some people in my field, and I had a (hopefully) successful phone interview for a job next term. 

I'm still struggling on a day to day basis, but I just wanted to share this little success in the hopes that others may find some inspiration. Count all of your successes, no matter how insignificant and small they may feel.

Cheers. ",9,221,586.8737104857989,GradSchool
"XKCD as usual, knows what's up",,8,218,610.3148910413545,GradSchool
My grad student has this hanging above her computer screen. Thought you guys would maybe find it helpful :^),,18,218,1439.1392197450582,GradSchool
Cartoon I drew of my meeting,,27,218,1634.2090577080212,GradSchool
This shutdown is making me salty.,I was applying to an agency that is affected by the shutdown in December. The tax plan they almost passed (the one where grad students had their tuition wavers taxed) almost made me not consider grad school. This  really needs to stop. ,62,217,284.06200909691,GradSchool
"A perfect thesis doesn't exist, only ""a good enough thesis for now""","My PhD director made a comment to me today. I went to him because I'm really stressing about turning in any draft of my final Lit Review for the thesis, because I don't think its good enough, according to my own high standards.  

His comment was that it jut has to be good enough for now.  If I look back in ten years and think this Lit Review was my best piece of writing ever, then I've failed as a researcher.  A researcher should keep going, keep learning, keep progressing.  I should look back on it and think its awful, thats the goal.  

That struck me, and I hope its enough to get me out of this rut where I can't write...",21,219,587.6860021524656,GradSchool
University of Chicago Graduate Students Vote to Unionize,,31,217,725.3736294672804,GradSchool
Reviewer 2 must be stopped!,,15,218,583.3139535413545,GradSchool
"FINAL UPDATE: My advisor let his visa expire, delaying graduation.","[Here’s a link to my most recent update. ](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/bs48dz/update_advisor_let_his_visa_expire_delaying/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=ios_share_flow_optimization&utm_term=control_2)

After months of bullshit, I finally presented my project on Wednesday. Yesterday I found out that I got an A on the project, and once they submit that grade I’m officially a graduate!!!! 

Thank GOD I can finally move on, and thank you all for the continued support and encouragement!!!!",7,213,115.23303918950259,GradSchool
I finally said no,"Long time lurker. I see lots of advice on saying no and not taking on too much work - I'm guilty of overloading myself and being really stressed all the time. This coming week I have three projects that are quite time-consuming due Friday, and I was just offered to guest lecture in a class. I love guest lecturing, but I really don't have time to dedicate to a presentation this week. So, for the first time in a \*long\* time, I said no! And it feels good. I don't think I would produce quality work had I added this to my list of projects for the week. Usually, I ponder and stress about these kinds of decisions, but this one was pretty easy to make. I think it was better to be honest and allow myself the time to dedicate to my other projects than to overload myself and produce work I wasn't proud of. TBH, nothing terrifies me more than giving a presentation/lecture I am not confident in. 

So, thanks for inadvertently helping me realize it's good to say no sometimes! Hope everyone has a happy and productive week :) ",15,217,318.32446280061373,GradSchool
I feel good today.,"As someone with chronic Imposter Syndrome and perfectionist (read: easily depressed) traits, I am taking a moment to celebrate my wins.  I did really well with a few high-pressure tasks/presentations, and have building evidence that I AM smart and capable. I am rewarding myself by taking the rest of the afternoon to do something important to me. 

Anybody else here know what it’s like to constantly fight to achieve “good work” in an exhausting, low self-esteemed battle? 

",38,217,335.0555391895026,GradSchool
"Today I cried because even though I think I’m a strong woman that can balance career and a family, it’s way tougher than I ever thought it would be","I’m due to give birth in the same month that I’m scheduled to defend my thesis, and it looks like I could get a few publications out of my thesis maybe even before I graduate, so I’ve been feeling really good about it for a while. But at the conference today, where there was a lot of speakers doing really cool Science, and a lot of old professors giving career advice, it’s becoming clear to me that I’m still settling for the comfortable option so that I can raise a child. I’ve compromised on a location my husband would want to be in, and I’m not actually trying to be in the best place for me career wise.  After talking to my husband, I’ve realized it’s a lot because I don’t value my own career that highly, and I sort of feel very defeatist about it sometimes , that I’m not even trying to get the best post doc opportunities I could get. I don’t know, I feel like my own lack of confidence in my abilities is the reason I’m doing this. And with a family I can rationalize it as my baby or my husband is making me choose the financially secure option, but in fact a lot of my coworkers with families are also able to go for post docs where they can learn something new, whereas I’ve opted to remain in the same lab as my phd. I don’t know, my mom basically gave up her career to have kids and seems to be bitter about it, so I’ve sworn to myself that I wouldn’t do that, but just because I’m working doesn’t seem to mean I didn’t compromise on my career more than I should have....emotionally it’s so hard to figure out where to draw the line on how much I should sacrifice for “work life balance”. And honestly it’s hard to not make it into a gendered issue: my coworkers who have kids but are moving anyways for their post docs are all males who have a wife that will support them wherever they go. My husband on the other hand has big career plans of his own and doesn’t seem capable of running a household even if I could financially support us. I mean I’m ok with him having career aspirations , I want both of us to be happy, but I think I gave in very readily to wherever he wanted to be because I didn’t think my career was important enough , and it somehow took talking to strangers who took it for granted that my career is important for me to become convinced that my career matters too.   

Sorry if this was long and ranty. I’m still trying to figure out how to balance it all, and would love to hear about how others balanced this. I think ultimately, I’m surprised that despite my sense of myself as quite strong and progressive, I feel as if I’ve still internalized certain gendered roles and expectations and still didn’t even try for certain things that would benefit my career. 

",28,215,582.4035947450582,GradSchool
Just happened to me this morning,,6,216,1670.372645670984,GradSchool
I submitted my dissertation today!,"I just wanted to share that after 5 long years of a difficult mentor, countless hours of sleep lost, and almost quitting right at the end. I'm done. I'm free, and I just had to share the news! This sub really helped keeping me sane towards those last few weeks. Hearing others succeed really helped to motivate me and keep me hopeful that I would make it. To all you out there good luck, you can do it! It gets so hard at the end but it is totally worth it.",7,212,409.8660831709841,GradSchool
"I’d whisper to my student self: you are not alone Twenty years on, Dave Reay speaks out about the depression that almost sunk his PhD, and the lifelines that saved him.",,19,214,521.3681665043174,GradSchool
Just wanted to thank this community.,"Thanks for all the support and reassurance that I'm not the only one who feels like they don't know anything and are imposters!

I have a meeting in 30 min with my supervisor and I'm going to come clean about not having done any work for basically the last 2 months because I've been too afraid to ask questions and admit I don't know how to do some things.

Wish me luck please 😊",12,211,263.9789419672804,GradSchool
Thesis submitted last night!,"Due at five, submitted around eleven-thirty.

At four-thirty, I had ""just one more figure"".  I added it, set the R and LaTeX to rebuild, went home, and saw that the build had succeeded, but that I had lost twenty pages.  All my plots were replaced with two-inch-square blank minipages.  Some combination of heat, amazingly bad air quality, excited toddler, and general fatigue defeated my powers of concentration and troubleshooting.  Once I figured out what I did wrong -- the smartdiagram package does bad things to ggplot2 plots, even when just included and not used -- it was another ten minutes to replace the figure, another half hour to generate the thesis, and bam.

A day of rest, then a week of building and practicing my presentation.",20,214,420.29115261542853,GradSchool
How I feel starting up a new project,,2,212,431.8222521524656,GradSchool
A month ago I was in such a hard place but the last 24 hours I've been reminded that I deserve to be here and that my hard work matters.,"Last month I posted in this sub about calling my mom and needing to sob. I was depressed and really hating myself. Up until last week I still cried almost every day and had the worst time sleeping. I felt inadequate and super stupid and had no idea what to do about it. After that night I promised myself I'd work hard to end the semester in the best way possible but also to take care of myself. So other than the stress crying, I started to do better and improve my days!

I've been scheduling breaks for myself: ""Okay, I'll work for an hour and take a half hour break to play on my phone or on my Switch.""

I'm a History MA student so I read and write ALOT. Several books a week and so far at least 50 pages of stuff has been written, including a 20 page paper that was due today.

So in this week so many good things happen I just really wanted to share with this supportive community.

- On Monday my mom mailed me a hard copy of the journal where I had, not one but TWO, articles published. With a note saying how proud she was of me and wanted me to have a visual of my hard earned work to be twice published in a year. Seeing my name in print and my hard work published really moved me. Damn. 

- Yesterday as I was writing up the final paragraph of my 20 page paper I recieved an email. I was accepted on a GA position for next year! $10,000 stipend and ALL my tuition fees are covered for next school year. I had to fight not to cry happy tears in the library! 

- And I finished that paper before 5 PM last night to relax last night and today! And that draft passed for me to turn in a final draft!

- I ordered a pizza last night, that was really good.

I feel happy and at ease. I feel like I belong and I dont suck. That I'm smart and I worked my ass off to get to where I am and I'm going to continue to work hard, but remember to take care of my body and heart while I do.",12,214,194.86100215246555,GradSchool
My friends and I discussing our costs of attendance:,,38,213,453.92331696728036,GradSchool
GOT IN!!!,"Today, I received an acceptance letter into chemistry PhD!!!!!
Only acceptance out of three!!!!!
",26,213,573.8822174302434,GradSchool
Anyone feeling lonely back at home?,"I celebrated Christmas with my family yesterday, and spending time with them only made me feel more out of place.  Everyone is talking about their homes or plans for children, which I cannot and do not want to participate in, and most of my family members treat my PhD as a prison sentence. They do not ask about what I do there, only how long it will be until I come home again or when I’ll be done.  It’s as if my existence and worth are directly related to my experiences at home and everything else is a distraction. It sucks because I love the person I am now and how I am at school. Here I feel I can’t measure up to anything.  Anyone else feel this way?",43,217,659.2933748376507,GradSchool
"Graduated a few days ago, so here's a list of my favourite PhD-related books.","As a long time lurker and occasional commenter on this sub, I thought you folks might be interested in some of these books that I have enjoyed and benefited from, before and during my PhD :)

1. **The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research**, by Gordon Rugg and Marian Petre. Hands down my favourite PhD book, a funny and easy read. I read it before starting my PhD, reread it several times over the course of the PhD, and it really influenced my perspective on what PhDs are for, how to succeed, and how to get the most out of them. Also makes an excellent gift for someone starting or thinking about starting a PhD.

2. **How to get a PhD**, by Estelle M. Phillips and Derek S. Pugh. A close second, with lots of great advice and bits of excellent dry humour scattered throughout.

3. **The Ph.D. Grind**, by Philip J. Guo. A candid retelling of Philip's personal PhD journey. He writes very well and provides an inspirational tale of perseverance -- a must read.

4. **How to Run a Paper Mill**, by John Woodwark. A hilarious take on the publish-or-perish status quo in academia, packed with lots of interesting advice. I feel most PhD students struggle with reconciling quality and quantity of published work and this book has helped me in my (still ongoing) journey to find that balance.

5. **Mastering your PhD**, by Patricia Gosling and Bart Noordam. Very readable book with good advice and a nice set of fictitious running case studies.

6. **Authoring a PhD**, by Patrick Dunleavy. A formal, but very well written and readable book, dedicated exclusively to writing the thesis. As far as thesis writing goes, this is a definitive guide.

Bonus reading:

**It's a PhD not a Nobel Prize: how experienced examiners assess research theses** by Gerry Mullins and Margaret Kiley. This one is actually a journal article, not a book, but it is very readable by people from any discipline and actually sheds some very comforting light on the PhD examination process.

**How to write a thesis**, by Umberto Eco. Eco is very heavily opinionated, in a brash and amusing way. Naturally, the writing is stellar. He also dedicates a lot of the book to the use of index cards for managing a bibliography, which was very pertinent at the time it was written. Even though the physical medium of index cards is no longer current and we are all busy fighting the Mendeley/Zotero/Endnote wars, there is still much to be learned from this book about effectively managing a bibliography.

**How to survive your PhD**, by Jason R. Karp. A lot of advice but drawn almost exclusively from personal experience, so to be taken with a pinch of salt. I also find the tone/voice a little basic and cocksure, but it's still worth a read.

**A PhD is not enough! A guide to survival in science**, by Peter J. Feibelman. Advice about giving job talks, getting grants, the tenure track. US-centric and science-centric but still an interesting read.

**[The Missenden Centre PhD Diaries](http://www.missendencentre.co.uk/phdiaries.html)**, compiled by John Wakeford. This is my go-to source for when I want to read a grisly story about someone else's PhD. If you like reading PhD horror stories as a way to convince yourself of your own good fortune, this is the best and most extensive archive. There are some happy stories, but most are *very* not happy, so venture carefully.",17,213,897.2671827080212,GradSchool
Affirmation,"My advisor recently put me in contact with a pretty well known academic in my field (i.e., over 1,800 citations). Because of our overlapping interests, I sent her a copy of my Master's proposal (and some preliminary findings). She responded to my research by saying, ""This is lovely both visually and in the content you've assessed and delivered.""

I've been struggling a lot with imposter syndrome, and sometimes I feel like my research is lame or not flashy enough... but this email really brightened my outlook and I wanted to share. For the first time in my academic life, I feel like someone (other than my supervisor) values something that I've done! 

Do you have any affirmation stories? <3 ",24,210,228.3530739117248,GradSchool
gradschool_irl (x-posted from /r/ComedyCemetary),,6,211,701.2399257635766,GradSchool
"PSA: Take breaks. Even if you don't think you have time, a planned break is better than an unplanned meltdown.","Slept for 12 hours last night and treated myself to a late brunch. Yes, I had a bunch of ""urgent"" emails waiting for me, missed calls from my lab manager, and a scary pile of work to do when I eventually got in, but those moments of ""me"" time were absolutely what I needed. I also went to a lecture on scientific thinking and hypothesis generation, and it was so nice to just sit and listen and think about why I'm in science. 

I love my research so much I sometimes get lost in it and forget that it's okay to take breaks sometimes. Over this summer, I developed an unhealthy work schedule where I was basically working 9-7 seven days a week. I got so used to it that when I didn't need to be working that hard, it still felt weird to not work at least 10 hours in a day and to not come in on the weekend when I didn't have anything urgent to do. There's so much to get done as a grad student, it's impossible to do everything as quickly as you'd like (or at all), so we have to remind ourselves that even though there are lots of things you *could* be doing, sometimes the best thing to do is just go home and relax. ",9,213,1069.0192313191324,GradSchool
"Admitted a defeat, faced it head on, now I'm happy.","I'm a first year in my grad program, and I came in wide eyed and ready. I still feel that way mostly. I signed up for well above a full course load (I'm on an RA and my project isn't fully defined yet so not much research to be done just yet) and my advisor was like ""Are you sure? That's a whole lot."" I basically said ""I won't know what the limit is until I reach it."" Then a few days ago in lecture, we got into such complex math that was supposedly foundational to the science and I was overcome with dread, since this was supposed to be my ""bottom priority"" class. After a little soul searching, I admitted defeat, and since we're past the withdraw date, I thought I was stuck in there and I was a little sad. But luckily my instructor is letting me switch it to an ""audit"" type grade, and so it'll be on my transcript, I'll get the info I can glean, without having to worry about a terrible grade or complete understanding (still have to do all the work though). It was the right choice and I'm stoked I get to have the best of both worlds. Still, it is difficult to admit when you can't do it all in academia. But I'm learning, as so many people have told me, grad school is when your ""exceptional talent"" becomes the norm, and you don't get a cookie for every little success. Stay strong folks!",12,210,4.082379467280375,GradSchool
"One in three graduate students are at a risk of developing a psychiatric disorder, especially depression. Don't be afraid to get help if you need it.",,18,210,799.3494512265396,GradSchool
Today is one of the best days of my life: I finally got my first paper!,"My first author paper was accepted for publication, and in a major journal! I am so excited: it took 9 months from first submission of the paper to final acceptance, and 7 additional experiments, but it is finally done! 

So keep your head up r/gradschool! If I can get published, you can too! There are good days in gradschool, this is proof! ",12,209,1014.2477382635767,GradSchool
"Spring Break starts this week for me. As a grad student teaching a 2/2 load and a thesis due in 2 weeks, this is how I'm feeling:",,19,207,1660.2574026154286,GradSchool
My new advisor is AWESOME!,"He actively works with me so that I can familiarize myself with the relevant literature. He let me borrow his book so that I can understand the fundamentals of the research area. He let me audit his class and sent me the note packages. And today he introduced me to his wife (who is also a professor). They said they hope to meet my husband, maybe over lunch or something, and they'd be happy to discuss ideas and get to know each other.

This is another thing that I was missing from my previous advisor. He wasn't personable. With him it was usually always *business*. Not only that, but he just wasn't encouraging or motivating, and I felt like I had zero direction. I knew I wasn't giving my 100% but at the same time I felt like I was at my limit. Now my new advisor is more like a mentor; I'm not even *officially* working with him until next semester, yet we are working together, and I'm actively trying to have a better understanding. He supports me combining ideas. I am actively working *not* because he pushes me, but because he *motivates* me. With him I feel like giving my 115%.

I'd say that the point of this post is finding a *mentor* rather than a *boss* can really help you reach your full potential.",26,207,11.921349374687782,GradSchool
I have statistical significance!,After months of optimizing and some rather rough mental health problems I finally have pay off. I am so happy I could cry,7,209,130.19087483765074,GradSchool
Passed my PhD defense yesterday!,"I was carrying so much stress and tenseness in my body that I woke up this morning with aches in muscles I didn't even know had been tensed until the relief of finishing and celebrating finally got me to relax. 

It was not nearly as awful an experience as my anxiety had been anticipating, but damn was I counting the seconds in that third hour for it to be over. I have some edits, but nothing major so overall, very happy:)",14,207,166.77531928209518,GradSchool
Today I went from being a PhD student to being a PhD candidate.,"Even though it seems like a small change, it's been a hard year and I'll take a win where I can find one! ",23,210,228.8001456709841,GradSchool
Self worth should not equal published papers.,"Lately, it has come to my attention that this whole system of judging your own self worth based on 'career targets' is just insane. This means that a professor who is an asshole would be better than a kind and empathic assistent professor, purely based on their role. 

Also, it seems that doing a PhD is only worth it if you publish thousand of papers and otherwise you are just a worthless piece of shit. There is so much wrong with this view. Your published papers do not define your value as a human being and also judging the 'succes' of a PhD on that seems to me to be very weird. So if I neglect my mind, body, friends and family but publish enough it is suddenly a good life/PhD? No. We should all stop doing this.

Also, being not 'the best' should be alright. Why don't we all try to help each other instead of being jealous all the time? I know it is a competative world but I would rather 'lose' than become a person with a delusional idea of self worth who does not care about his peers or even about advancing knowledge. To me that is losing. 

- I know it is a rant, but I am not sorry. I think it is good to discuss. EDIT: Paragraphs. 
- English is not my first language, so I apologize for any errors in writing.  ",47,209,414.43215955987296,GradSchool
Hmmmm,,21,206,470.7462799302433,GradSchool
My adventure getting into a graduate school: a chart,,57,210,928.3031665043175,GradSchool
I have just purchased an overbed table. I have reached peak PhD.,Just needed to share my news.,33,208,60.07560863394704,GradSchool
Grad school makes me so sad sometimes,"It's that time of the year when grad students leave groups (idk why). I switched in the spring 2 years ago, and in the last week I have spoken to 3 people who will leave their groups at the end of the semester, and my department is not very big (~150). It makes me so sad, they are all obviously capable, intelligent and hard working students caught up in a shit situation where failure only affects them. They seemed so stressed, and I think when the future is uncertain, there's a whole mindset of 'What did I do wrong?'

As someone who was in this situation, I think I just wanted to tell everyone here who is feeling hopeless and helpless that IT IS NOT YOUR FAULT. If your advisor is shit, it's not your fault. If your project is not working in spite of your best efforts, it's not your fault. If your mental health is taking a toll on your work, it's not your fault. Place a little blame on all the factors contributing to your state of mind . It could be publishing pressure, funding pressure, the asshole advisor, bad breakup. But just, it is not your fault. Ugh, really, sorry for this rant, I feel so sad. ",20,204,192.85668502283593,GradSchool
A vent about my family,"The don’t understand, nor do they care/try to understand anything that I do anymore. I’m presenting research at a university conference, a regional conference, and a national conference. I’ve gotten my very first grant. I teach 3 different undergraduate labs and finally about to go on my first PhD program visit. They don’t care and it hurts. It hurts bad. All the while, my step brother is a minor league baseball player and they will travel leaps and bounds to visit him, watch him, and pretty much worship him while he’s in another state. They won’t even travel 90 minutes to come see me speak at a conference. I’ve gotten to the point where I don’t even want to tell them what’s going on in my life If they aren’t going to at least pretend to be excited about it. 

Thank you for reading. 

Sorry for typos. I’m on mobile. 

Edit: I am fully aware that families are typically not a thing at a conference. My university is hosting a janky little graduate research conference and we were told explicitly to invite our family. But also more importantly, they won’t even come visit me in general. 

Edit 2: I have talked to my dad  many times about how I feel left out compared to my step-brother(s). But my step mom wears the pants and my dad will pretty much do whatever she wants. Also, I don’t expect them to understand anything I do (even though as far as a STEM field goes it relatively easy to understand). It’s about them being proud of me and just saying hey you’re doing a great job. 

Edit 3: wow! Just wow! I cannot thank you enough for all of your kind words it really has helped me to know that I am not alone in this. To everyone pointing out my family issues. My family is not perfect and neither is yours. My dad and step mom have been married for a little over a year and they did not do a very good job integrating our mixed family. This is still extremely new and we don’t have it all figured out. I wish y’all the best of luck and always know that you ever never alone even if it seems that way. ",87,207,202.8650993746878,GradSchool
My advisor is amazing,"I just wanted to share this because I am deeply touched by my advisor's understanding. I have depression and anxiety; and in spite of my medication, my mental health has been declining in the past few months. The depression has been hitting especially hard, making it difficult to get my work done. My productivity has decreased sharply since the summer. I've been meeting with my advisor weekly, and I could tell that she had been getting frustrated by my lack of progress. I felt ashamed, and I worried that she thought I was being lazy or that I stopped caring about science. So, I sent her an email this weekend explaining my mental health issues because I wanted her to understand that the person I've been lately isn't the real me, and that I know I can do better. I was hesitant to send it, because I didn't know how she would react. I took a chance and hit the send button anyway. I just got an email from her this morning. She thanked me for my honesty and told me that it's okay, and that these things happen. She said she's willing to talk through it with me and help me find ways to get around the problem. I actually almost cried because I wasn't expecting such a kind response.",9,207,302.3077151154285,GradSchool
First day as a TA!,"Wish me luck! 
Let’s hope no one asks questions because I have no idea what I’m doing!  Lol",63,205,399.3089651154286,GradSchool
The most awkward group meeting,"(This will stay SFW, hopefully)

TL;DR: My advisor had a command line open on his screen during the entirety of a group presentation with a wget command for downloading videos from pornhub.

During a group meeting the other day, my advisor hooked up his laptop to the projector so that we could compare data.  He had a command line opened so when the display turned on we could see what he'd last been doing.  The command line was very clearly a ""wget"" command for downloading videos from pornhub.

He was completely oblivious, and decided that the display wasn't right because the screen resolution was too big. So he adjusted the display for what felt like ages, while the rest of us sat in horror.  After probably an entire minute, he got the display right, closed out of all his windows, and opened up the data we needed to look at.

As traumatized as I am, I really just want to sit down with him and explain that its not 1997 and you don't have to download porn anymore.",40,205,431.21185863394703,GradSchool
When you reach that point in your postgrad studies where you wish you followed Elon Musk's example,,26,207,520.2115924302434,GradSchool
Day 1. Orientation.,,4,209,768.6690229857988,GradSchool
I am submitting my PhD today and I feel like shit.,"As above. I've not felt this intensity of emotions in my life before (and I am OLD). I keep feeling that there's some spelling/grammatical errors left and there is a niggling fear that the work is inadequate. At the same time, I feel sad. So much of what I've worked on for years is now encapsulated in these pages that I've to let go. It feels a little painful. It feels like such a large part of me is now gone to be judged and assessed by others. I feel anxious as well. What if there's a screw up in the submission process? What if a page number is incorrect? Will examiners judge me because I printed the thesis on recycled (not the bright white but slightly yellowish) paper? Is it ok to include a name in brackets although its not my legal name? I feel so odd right now.  


Edit: Corrected some grammatical and spelling errors. The irony!",49,204,236.56798131913223,GradSchool
"I can hold myself together for all of my graduate school related tasks, but other non-school related things feel next to impossible :(",I feel like I'm having a decently productive week and I was feeling ok about everything this afternoon. I just found out about a small errand I need to run tomorrow evening that will only take an hour or so and I burst into tears and felt an immediate rush of anxiety. Anyone else feel like they channel so much of themselves into holding their projects and other work/school tasks together that non-related chores feel so much harder to handle?,56,209,242.83286557839148,GradSchool
Is grad school supposed to be a daily struggle of considering jumping off a tall building?,"Or am I just doing this wrong like everything else?

I can’t take another three years of this.",52,205,265.52158085616924,GradSchool
"ResearchGate CEO: ""I just don’t think published articles should be the be-all and end-all of how science is communicated""",,27,207,544.3164303932064,GradSchool
PhD students are 2.5 times more likely to develop psychiatric disorders than highly educated general population [xpost /r/science],,33,208,931.5691040043174,GradSchool
"After 3 years, I've officially started writing my thesis!",,45,208,2231.1944165043174,GradSchool
"If I'm ever a supervisor, I hope I'll remember this.","I'm not generally having a terrible time in grad school, but this week sucked. My experiments weren't working and no one knows why because they worked for other people, and I felt like I fuck up everything I try to do one way or another. I know I'm learning, but... let's just say I *learned* way too much this week. I had no hard evidence but was starting to wonder if my supervisor just thinks I'm a giant idiot.

Until today: I was consulting with my supervisor and he told me he thought something I did was smart. The mounting fears that he thinks I'm a moron have been banished. I don't think he even knows how good that made me feel.

If I'm ever a supervisor, I hope I remember how much good a kind word can do.",4,204,158.47372205987298,GradSchool
A bit of validation I actually belong doing a PhD,"I've had months of feeling like I'm in the worst burnout rut ever. I'd struggle to get the motivation to come to work and when here would have to drag myself to do something productive with the day. I spent 56 hours in a row here last week and still felt guilty for not doing enough. I've struggled a lot with feeling like I don't belong and I'm not smart enough to do this, but today I received an email from the conference I applied to present at that I had been selected to receive an award for my abstract submission and application.

  
Its the little things that really make things feel all that better.",20,209,170.0213493746878,GradSchool
Language habits for stress reduction,"I’m a STEM PhD student who is graduating soon. Here are some habits I’ve adopted to possibly ease stress, increase feelings of competence and combat imposter syndrome. I’m curious if anyone else has modified their language in a similar way.

1. Avoid the word should at all costs. Even if you made a mistake you don’t really need to chastise yourself for it. “Should” indicates there’s some standard that you’re failing to meet.

2. Don’t apologize unless you’re truly sorry and would go back and do things differently.

3. Don’t justify yourself unless necessary. 

4. I try not to say “I will do x.” How do you know you will do it.. you can certainly plan to do something but who knows what will happen. 


Not saying these are universal but I feel like they’ve helped me move  toward preferable narratives about myself.

Happy gradschoolin y’all

Edit: grammar, typos",25,207,15.104775300613708,GradSchool
"I promised my committee a full draft of my diss this week. So far, the laundry is done and the house is clean!",What are you go-to procrastination activities? (besides Reddit) [Relevant PhdComic](https://twitter.com/phdcomics/status/406470278051409920).,48,205,1373.126546133947,GradSchool
"Thanks, you are the best.","This was a single line email from my major professor after finishing up a bunch of graphics for their presentation next week. I don't always desire kudos, but it definitely felt real good after a busy week of email traffic and edits.",2,202,17.902529930243336,GradSchool
"Four years in and I think I’m only just now getting the hang of grad school, and so far, the most significant insight I've had is this:","Up until now, I didn’t know how to complete a project that took more then one session of concerted effort. I didn’t know how to set up a multi-step process which adds up, over time, to a specified result. I didn’t know how to respond to anything other than immediate gratification. Grad school has taught me that there is something valuable in having patience for results. It has taught me that the PROCESS is the work-horse of result. Prior to this, I didn’t appreciate process, I found it painful and I didn’t trust it because I only had evidence that short term goals with immediate satisfaction were the only profitable way to experience life. Grad school has taught me to trust the process.

How about you guys? What is the most important thing you’ve learned from grad school, how has it helped you grow?",23,208,271.83029613394706,GradSchool
Passed my thesis proposal!,I can start writing! Hoping to carve out some time this week but how do you guys manage your writing time when you're still taking coursework (I'm taking 3 classes this semester)? Thanks! :'),9,207,387.3969280783915,GradSchool
What my thesis feels like... (x-posted from /r/perfectloops),,8,202,967.5304118746877,GradSchool
I never in a million years thought this moment would come—I got ACCEPTED into a nationally ranked top 10 Counselor Education MA program!,"I’ve been a stay at home parent for the last 3 years, finishing my BS in Psych 100% online. I’ve had absolutely no job/research experience since before I had a child. Great grades but I did poorly on the GRE. 

The interview was held in “groups” I was terrified and faked every ounce of confidence that I had. I hadn’t been to an interview in almost 4 years. I left feeling okay but mostly relieved it was over.

Last night I got a call from the director of the program saying I was directly admitted! I am over the moon. I start in August and the classes are at night so I can still be a stay at home parent! 

I really thought I wasn’t good enough. But I fucking did it and I’m so proud of myself. 

Edit: someone commented below asking how it was fair to everyone else that applied that I got in and they didn’t, even if they had more research experience. I just want to say, academically (awards, honor/leadership societies, good relationships w/ professors) I’m accomplished. Although I don’t have recent job/research experience, I volunteered with impoverished kids to aid in their emotional/behavioral well being before I became a mom and that stood out to the faculty. I also suffer with GAD and often feel like the underdog or “less than” so I guess when I talked about faking confidence, that’s literally what I did because I was overwhelmed.

But overall, I’m still proud of myself. Someone else commented that it wasn’t a fluke that they chose me. They chose me for a reason and I know I will be a great addition to the program!",31,201,195.07343270802113,GradSchool
"MRW someone asks, ""What should I get someone working on a dissertation, a Starbucks gift card or an Amazon gift card?""",,31,202,534.9049257635767,GradSchool
"After 5 weeks of writing, the damn thing is finally done.",,10,203,757.1849489117249,GradSchool
Recent thoughts on my expectations vs. reality,,14,201,1992.0552382635767,GradSchool
Really grateful for my wonderful advisor today.,"He spent three hours with me one-on-one going through my committee meeting presentation. Then we chatted about life and I realized how much he genuinely cares about every single person in this lab. He motivates me to try my hardest and still instills in me the importance of work/life balance. 

  
I know posts like this can be hard to read for people who aren't as lucky. Part of the reason I'm posting is because I ONCE WAS YOU. I was in a lab with a mentor who regularly made people cry, myself included. I had so much trouble dragging myself to work every single day and just counted down the hours until I could leave. It was the most miserable I'd been since high school. In my new lab I still have some down days, but overall I don't mind going to work at all - and actually enjoy it when I'm there for the most part.  

  
You deserve better than to be treated like shit. Trust me - it is scary to take the leap and make a lab change, but 100% worth it. Hang in there friends. ",9,200,216.99871048579888,GradSchool
I don't understand my PhD research,"Starting my 4th year now, I feel more lost than at any time in my life. I have absolutely no clue where to start, how to analyze the data, anything... I knew that this day would come, everyone would see that I just don't belong to a PhD and I'm below average in my field. Because I'm this lost, I have no willing to open my computer and read stuff I know I don't understand and write awful paragraphs about something I pretend to know.

  
We all know our strengths and weaknesses. When I started, I knew it was a research field that was really out of my comfort zone, but I really thought I could do it. The papers were always complicated to understand completely, but after reading a few times, I also believed I was going to be able to write one when I have data. Not anymore. My supervisors are on my neck wanting to see how things are going and I have absolutely nothing. More I read, more I see I'm on a dead end road. Don't know what to do.",69,201,286.06308548579887,GradSchool
I did it! I passed!,"I passed my comprehensive exams! Everything went really well, and I am now devoting the next couple days to exploring the mountains and barbecuing.

Thanks for sharing your stories everyone, you guys are constant motivation!! ",10,200,900.3156433561692,GradSchool
"Post-phd blues in early 30s, feeing depressed, my life in 20s seems lost","I’ve been feeling depressed in the past couple of weeks. I’ve been a student and been in academia for more than a decade. that doesn’t mean that I burned my mind body and soul into this. My life has been luke warm and I’m not happy to get phd. I think my decisions were just spontaneous and I’m not passionate about the project I have had. I’m not proud of my PhD, the area of research, and what I’ve accomplished for the past years. I feel like my 20s are lost, and I should have had more fun. My mind was never set free to hang out and have fun without any worries, but at the same time I didn’t really work hard, either. I don’t know what I’m passionate about, in fact I’ve lost all my passion, and jobs I’m interested in is not really lining up with my experience and PhD. Has anybody have any feelings like this? How did you overcome? I don’t want to live next 10 years like this... i don’t want postdoc, I’m sick and tired of being in institutions. I’m not happy.",64,203,144.28346743024335,GradSchool
I'm in lab meeting right now and...,"It's a two hour meeting and we're thirty minutes in so far. Eight people have to present today. And the first presenter is still on her first slide. *facepalm*

Anyone else sit through really inefficient lab meetings every week? ",51,199,480.3550299302433,GradSchool
When the weekly departmental seminar gets cancelled,,11,197,767.4200878006138,GradSchool
Just submitted my thesis to my advisor,I don’t know if I want to cry or laugh or both,39,197,147.15372205987296,GradSchool
What it is like to really burn out (why you need to rest),"Hey everyone.  I've been lurking this subreddit for a long time, watching questions get answered, complaints about academic culture addressed, and many of you talk about exhaustion, depression, burnout, etc.  I never believed it could happen to me, but I burnt out - and those of you who shrug it off like it can never happen to you should listen to this.  I am not your Type-A, super-workaholic personality, but I am obsessive about my work and my field.  I'm not competitive, but I have enough of a drive to keep me going where others call it quits (you'll probably recognize quite a bit of yourself in that description: it's a catch-all for most graduate students).  I worked as hard as I could for as long as I could.  For the last year, I had more all-nighters than I could count (there were some months where it occurred each week), I wrote papers above and beyond the requirements, and I tried as hard as I could to devote myself to the students in the two undergraduate classes I taught.  I think I did moderately well, considering the strain that was put on me.  

The stress, anxiety, and social isolation eventually caught up with me.  I finished my grading on May 28th, and was done with the year.  I was looking forward to a summer where I could catch up, prepare for my Greek language qualifying exams, and prepare a special undergraduate seminar for the coming fall.  I was going to take a week off, and then get right to it.  Six days later, I was incapacitated.  Out the blue, I felt a strange fog descend on my brain.  Not a fatigued sort of fog - literal cognitive dysfunction.  I could tell that my body was intaking all of the necessary sensory information for me to adequately absorb and process my surroundings and all the stimuli in my world, but my brain couldn't keep up.  Looking around a room felt stressful and straining.  I started to lose the ability to process my peripheral vision.  Simultaneously, my ability to make executive decisions and engage in rational thought dropped precipitously.  I stopped being able to read more than one word at a time.  Emails I wrote looked like they had been written by someone experiencing a stroke.  Once, for about 60 seconds, while I was discussing something on the phone with my Dad, I actually lost the ability to speak.  On top of this, I started feeling tired all the time.  I was sleeping 16-18 hours a day, and within a half an hour of waking, I would want to go right back to bed.  My memory was gone, and so was my grasp of time.  I couldn't tell whether something had happened in the last five minutes, or the last five weeks.  Short term memory went right out the window.  I went home for a spell, but found myself a complete vegetable.  Playing Age of Empires II was intellectually stressful for me, and was the height of my mental capacity.  

I went to several doctors, none of which thought there was anything wrong with my brain, but diagnosed it as a physical manifestation of anxiety, depression, and social isolation.  I had never experienced this before, but I know how I got here.  I am getting better - I am on a light dosage of SSRIs, and am in therapy, but I am not 100% better.  I don't know if I'll ever recover fully again (although I sure as hell hope so).  For those of you who worry that you're not doing enough, even as you drag yourself out of bed in the morning, feeling like you want to curl up in a hole somewhere - you need to stop and really evaluate what is important to you.  I am not healthy, and based on my habits, I am slowly killing myself for this academic dream I harbor.  You need to stop and really triage what is going on in your life.  You cannot live on academic success alone - you need to take care of your heart, your brain, your circulatory system, your muscles.  You need to pay attention to your body, as well as the development of your mind.  Otherwise, you could end up like me.  

I've lost an entire summer, and I haven't even been able to enjoy the time I've had - when you're in a brain fog, you can't really enjoy activities.  I'm not going to be able to take my qualifying exam, pushing my education back another semester.  I'm going to be performing at my lowest, as I don't have the strength or energy to really excel in my grad program this semester.  If you take anything away from what I'm saying here, let it be this: maybe it's better to be an average grad student if you can be consistently average, rather than be excellent for a year, and then decline rapidly later.

I apologize if this post was poorly written - my brain is not functioning at 100% at the moment. ",33,199,430.00376835616925,GradSchool
I got admitted! 💚,"Hi everyone. I just wanna share how happy I am. After two months of waiting for the results to come out, I got my acceptance letter two days ago from the University I wanted to get into. I got admitted to the MS Psychology program and I’m going to major in Human Development. I am quite scared about the new adventure I’m going to take but here’s to moving forward and making things happen!! 💚💚

EDIT: Thank you all so much for wishing me good luck. I swear it means a lot to me. :) I have never done anything as big as this on my own and its kind of terrifying. But its the good kind of terrified. 😊 I can’t wait to begin this journey! ",16,200,541.2555623376508,GradSchool
My abstract has been accepted! I'll be speaking at my first conference in May!,"This is such an exciting prospect. I suddenly feel like a professional and an actual adult? Crazy to think that one simple email can make me feel like a completely different person.

Also, almost as exciting as going to the conference is the fact that it's in a part of the country that I've never been to, so it'll also be exciting to just...travel there and experience a whole new place.

I know that I'm going to start freaking out as it gets closer to that point, since I have several anxiety disorders and speaking in front of people makes me very nervous, *however* I do know that I feel confident when talking about my work, so I hope that will be enough to quell my anxieties.

Well, regardless, this is a wonderful Christmas present! I suddenly feel so proud of myself.",22,196,661.0596364117248,GradSchool
A recollection about my advisor - 2 years deep,"I'm a PhD student in a molecular biophysics group. I was nervous at first because my advisor is a hard ass. He can be curt in conversation, and just has this overall intimidating aura (he's an old, gruff physicist). Even after working with him for about 2 years, I still couldn't quite figure him out and felt intimidated around him.

&#x200B;

I was dumped by my girlfriend of 3 years in the most bizarre and sudden way a few months ago, and it quickly became clear that the emotional turmoil would affect my work. The next day, I walked into my advisor's office and began to explain how I was going through a personal trauma, and that my head is still in the game but these next couple weeks are gonna be rough (more like months LOL). Dude saw through it immediately and interrupted me -  ""sounds like girlfriend problems"".

&#x200B;

He asked me to take a seat, smiled and said ""I was young once"". He explained to me how, as scientists, we have a responsibility to the people providing us funding and the people waiting to read our research, and that sometimes the science has to keep moving. But that's not true at the moment, and I shouldn't worry about ""taking off this day or that day"" and to focus on myself right now. He offered his condolences and said to let him know if there's anything he can do for me.

&#x200B;

It was exactly what I needed to hear, and with his leadership the past few months have hands-down been the most productive and career-defining for me. He pushes his students very hard, and while it seemed scary at first, it turned out that he's more like a Captain Picard than just some grumpy impatient guy. The longer I've worked with him, the more its become clear that he's a genuinely kind-hearted person who takes his work very seriously and wants his students to be successful. Idk, I thought this was a cute uplifting story. If I become an advisor someday, I'll probably take a less heavy-handed approach, but I know what kind of leader I'd want to be.",7,197,110.29055076357668,GradSchool
"When universities shortchange grad students, undergrads suffer too",,4,197,200.20997205987297,GradSchool
[Xpost /r/HumansAreMetal] Well I guess I am going to have to submit it on time now...,,11,195,282.1048447450582,GradSchool
Well. I'm done. Yay.,"I successfully defended my dissertation on Friday, which I guess makes me a doctor now. I want to be over the moon excited, and I know I should be completely relieved. The problem is,  I just don't feel anything at all. I am completely frozen. Not like the kind of frozen you feel when you have an upcoming deadline but just can't get started. It's very different, it almost feels like I just can't bring myself to care.  I know all about  the post PhD blues and I am sure I am experiencing them. It's just incredibly disheartening to feel this way knowing that I've worked so hard to get to this point. I want to be proud of myself,  but I am just...not. I want to get to work on all of the fun projects that I deprioritized to finish the diss, but I can't bring myself to see the point.

 I even already have a job lined up, a post doc. Again, I should be happy, but it just fills me with dread, because all it seems to mean is that I will be doing this all over again in two years. It also means I have to move to a different state....something I've never done before. I should be excited about a new adventure but my mind just refuses to frame it that way. It's not a new adventure...it feels like a waste of money, time, and energy. 

It also feels like the worst impostor syndrome I've ever experienced (and I am NO stranger to it). Anyway, I know it will pass with time, and I guess I just needed to vent and maybe commiserate if anyone else is in the same boat. 

In any case, I would appreciate any tips for how to move past this funk, or at least find ways to enjoy this phase of my life. Or maybe just...other people's stories about dealing with this feeling might help. ",23,201,496.10242576357666,GradSchool
"It appears that Michael LaCour, a PoliSci grad student and soon-to-be Princeton faculty member whose work was published in Science and featured on This American Life, faked his data",,62,198,1609.6636410413546,GradSchool
Defended my PhD dissertation this morning,Passed with very minor corrections. The relief is just starting to sink in. ,51,200,1733.1737104857991,GradSchool
"""LOL, my thesis."" - theses in tweets. My favourite so far: ""So, colonialism.""",,34,199,2116.893733633947,GradSchool
It’s easier to find space to study at a bar than in a coffeeshop.,"I wandered all over campus yesterday looking for a place to study, and all my usual coffeeshops and study spaces were packed to the gills. I wound up popping into a favorite bar/restaurant of mine, which was almost empty, and studied there until I got too buzzed to concentrate 😆 

But seriously, it’s frustrating that studying in coffeeshops has become so ubiquitous it’s impossible to do unless I show up before 9am, or venture very far off campus. 

EDIT: TIL either everyone’s an alcoholic, or a good beer gets those brain juices flowing 😏",41,195,407.0340692820952,GradSchool
I handed in my dissertation today,"I'm officially done with my masters. It was a struggle these past 6 weeks with exams and dissertation to juggle but it's finally done. I'll get my grades in a month. Going out for drinks with the department tonight, tomorrow me and half my program are going to Sardinia for a subsidized trip for a week. It feels so good to be done, I was really starting to burn out. It's also a little strange to have absolutely no responsibilities right now.",12,195,498.4947637265396,GradSchool
Met an amusing financial aid assistant who had this board in her office,,4,196,557.9440924302434,GradSchool
"There should be an open-access journal for negative data called, ""don't waste your time, dude.""",,34,198,1546.3861757635766,GradSchool
I love my program. Just need to say that.,"Sorry if this comes off as some sort of humble brag, but I dont have many people in my life that can really keep a conversation going about this. But I fucking love my program so far. I'm only a month in, and I know there will be many bad days ahead, but my PI is awesome, my fellow PhD students are great, the post docs are great and super helpful and the projects I'm being brought onto are just super cool. I'm stoked for all the stuff I get to be a part of. I maintain a pretty solid 8 net hours a day of work but I could gladly overdo that. I'm sorry for all the people out there that dont feel like this, but I just feel so good about it. Feel free to ask me in 3 years if i feel the same haha.",30,195,80.82658085616926,GradSchool
Today has been a fucking day.,"Gonna preface this with: this is a lot of complaining but I just needed to vent it and let it go. 

I'm four months pregnant with twins and have been having a fun time trying to sleep at night (pregnancy insomnia, woo!) on top of my usual sleep issues plus the regular symptoms/conditions associated with pregnancy. Last night was a particularly fun night to try to sleep as my neighbors decided they were gonna form a rock band around 1a. Cool. 

This morning I woke up to frantic calls/texts from my office mate notifying me that my office has, once again, flooded. January 2018 my first office space had a pipe burst and destroyed my entire office space so I moved to a completely different building. Last night another pipe burst a few doors down from my new office but enough damage was done that I needed to move again. Fine, ok. Getting that squared was decently easy in hindsight. 

Today in lecture I realized just how little patience I have left to deal with things. I have two students that consistently text each other/talk in class and for the most part it's never really bothered me. I don't have a no-tech policy and I'm fairly relaxed on that kinda stuff. However, today it was blatantly obvious they were texting about me (look at the phone, look at me, smirk/laugh, look at each other, look at phone, repeat) for a good 10 minutes. After a while it got incredibly distracting so I just called them out on it and asked if there was something on my face/could help them with something. They, thankfully, knocked it off and paid attention through the rest of class. 

I feel bad for putting them on the spot but ffs at least try to be sneaky or better yet -- just talk shit after class. 

Urg, thanks for letting me rant r/GradSchool and hope your Tuesdays are going better. ",19,195,196.25681233765076,GradSchool
The biggest lie in all of academia,"""It is very important, however, that the expectation of 15-20 hours per week, on average, not be exceeded so as to ensure that your RA duties are fair and equitable and do not interfere with progress toward your degree. We recognize that on occasion the duties of an RA may unavoidably exceed the norms stated here. Because these maximum hour expectations of weekly hours of effort averaged over the course of the semester are important to the integrity of the RA program, at the end of the semester you will be asked to complete electronically the End of Semester Report on hours of effort averaged over the semester; a sample of the report form appears at the bottom of your appointment letter.""",56,197,256.1788030783915,GradSchool
"A mouse that would not die. Warning: rant, cursing and graphic mental images.","I have this great data in vitro, and great data in vivo. One frickin guy on my committee wants me to do the experiment ex vivo. 

This involves me somehow hooking up a mouse leg muscle to two separate hooks in a bath. If you can imagine tieing a suture to two tendons that are about a millimeter in length, without them slipping off, and tieing similarly tiny loops in them all within about 2 minutes after the mouse is dead 

I cant get this stupid experiment to work. 

Today the fricking dead mouse WOKE BACK UP. IT was supposed to be dead!!! I've put down over a thousand mice in my scientific career. Co2 overdose, and thorectomy later the damn thing starts squeaking at me and trying to crawl off the table. I'd already removed the skin from a hind leg. This was a fucing nightmare. 

So there I am after hours, by myself. BAWLING (my cat died last week so I'm pretty sensitive about death in general right now), shaking, trying to tie these minuscule sutures on this minuscule muscle with no hope of being able to reproduce this frickin data ever ever ever again. IF I get it to work even once to shut up my one committee member. 

Now I'm sending out emails to the postdoc I know does a similar experiment in blood vessels to ask for help... I really dislike this guy, and hate working with him. But I guess I have to swallow my pride and beg. 

Fuck graduate school. 

Fuuuuuck PhDs. 

Fuck killing cute things badly. 

Fuck this postdoc and his constantly asking me if I'm single 

Fuck my committee member wanting this useless experiment.

Uggggghhhhhhgghgggg 

Ps. If anyone knows how to do functional muscle testing using the Aurora system ex vivo, for the love of God send me a PM. I'll put you on my paper. 

",50,195,279.0271479857989,GradSchool
"Half of women in science have experienced harassment, study finds",,44,198,489.38181233765073,GradSchool
A junior lab member was complaining his experiment wasn't working after trying a lot of things,"I told him to just cry and hope his tears would catalyze the reaction. He just looked at me funny, but I have the feeling many of you can relate. ",21,193,518.1186410413545,GradSchool
Why does every other grad's life seem better than mine?,,49,198,531.1231433561693,GradSchool
"Today I am thankful for you, r/gradschool","Exactly 24 hours ago, on the day before Thanksgiving, I successfully stood in front of a room full of colleagues, mentors, friends, and family, and gave my last presentation for my department. Directly after, I successfully defended my thesis in front of my committee. My thesis passed with no revisions, and I'm headed out the door y'all. 

I just wanted to say that I am SO thankful for this community. Sure, there were times where I was so stressed in grad school that I completely avoided this sub so I wouldn't be reminded of it, but all in all this is a supportive community that helps us realize that we are not alone in our efforts. Grad school is tough, but it is so worth it. I fully understood this when I hugged my parents after I passed and felt their happiness and pride (I was the first to obtain a B.S., let alone a M.S., in my family). I am so proud of what I accomplished. 

Enjoy your Thanksgiving, relax a little, and keep on pushing on! And again, thanks for always being there <3",12,196,691.2823563191323,GradSchool
"My residency ended today, my dissertation is defended, my PhD is over, the asterisk is gone, and I HAVE SO MANY FEELINGS.",,6,195,781.0723794672803,GradSchool
You know you're in grad school when...,You show up at 10:30 and you're the first one in the office because your advisor is out of town and no one else will be here until noon,57,194,811.3118239117248,GradSchool
My stance on dealing with my PI in my 6th year.,,17,195,1160.0628655783914,GradSchool
I did it- I successfully defended my dissertation yesterday!,"So, after nearly 5 years working on my Ph.D. (I skipped a Master's degree), I successfully defended my dissertation yesterday.  I was so freaking nervous for DAYS- every time I practiced the talk I was worse that the attempt before. But when I got up there and finally got started, it all went just great!

I still have some revisions to make based on feedback from my committee, but that was to be expected.  But they signed off on everything, so I just need to get the edits done and then submit the behemoth.

It was a long, strenuous trudge to get here, but I had awesome advisors, fantastic lab mates, and really awesome friends and family to help me get through it.  

It seemed impossible at a few points, but here I am. If I can do it, you can too!",26,194,1602.398710485799,GradSchool
"I just went back to school, and realized I have a .edu email address again. What sort of free programs can I get with this? (Gliffy was my first one!)","Any software related to engineering/computer science would be great, or anything that would save me money like Amazon or books! ",94,196,224.4234905783915,GradSchool
I submitted my PhD last week,"It's done! Finally done!  
  
Now I must await the marker's decisions.  
  
I'm still sleepy. ",11,196,225.6616155783915,GradSchool
Inspiration! | 88-year-old Japanese woman earns a Ph.D.,,16,197,553.3115808561693,GradSchool
"Oh, Reviewer 2...",,19,196,1358.1818123376509,GradSchool
Screw my lab mate! RANT,"Okay so basically I have this one lab mate (who is two years behind me mind you!) who has taken it upon himself to report on when everyone comes and goes in our lab. Basically if we are not there 9-5 then he acts as if we've committed a cardinal sin. My PI has always been pretty relaxed about this stuff but now my lab is like on a time clock because of a first year who is basically and a\*\*hole. So I'm annoyed becauseI have no lab work to do today except work on my references for a paper and I have to go through questioning before I can even think of doing this at home. UGH he might be the most annoying person Ive ever met.

&#x200B;

So that was a short rant but I hate him a lot and I needed to get it out. Thank you for your service reddit! and I'm going togo work on my paper at home because screw him!

&#x200B;

\*Edit\* Thanks so much for all the advice! Wish me luck!",38,195,203.15600215246556,GradSchool
I have so much resentment,"I am set to hand in my thesis next week, and I am an emotional wreck. The last four years of my life absolutely destroyed me, and right now it seems like it just will never end.

I got almost no supervision in these four years. I got a lot of passive-aggressive comments about how much of a failure I am, though. 4 years in this department in which I am ignored at best, treated like an inconvenience at worst. None of my colleagues seem to understand how much harder it is to do a PhD basically on your own. How hard it is on your self-esteem to be in an environment that has no word of encouragement or constrictive feedback for you. 

After these 4 years of being on my own, I spent a couple of weeks prodding my supervisor on his schedule for the last weeks before my submission, so that he would be able to include time to look at my drafts and give me feedback. He says ok sure, he can do it, he has time, it is all ok.

So it is 7 days before my submission day, and he hasn't finished reading even my introduction. It seems like his office is never empty of other students with which he is spending hours and hours talking to. It's not like he is a great supervisor to all of these people either... it just seems like all of those meetings have to happen now.

I don't understand this. Why would he hire someone who he seems convinced that is a failure? Why would he accept the role of supervisor to someone, and then spend 4 years questioning any of this person's attempts at doing research, while providing zero guidance on what path to follow instead?

For 3 years my self confidence dwindled, I became depressed, ruined my long-term relationship, failed to integrate in a foreign country where it is already super hard to integrate. For all this time I felt like an absolute failure, because that's how I was treated. 

Maybe I am not the smartest cookie in the jar, but I did a great job before this. I had way more publications than anyone else here had before starting the PhD. And now I'm not even done yet, and job offers are raining at me. People seem to appreciate me, my ideas and my work, even though I haven't published anything in 3 years. 

I am so so tired. I got out of the office and came home because I just couldn't keep myself from crying. I just want this to be over soon.",28,195,0.47393039320630054,GradSchool
HAHAHAHAHA first week of grad school and I’m already fearing my burn out,"Please tell me this is normal and I’m not the idiot clown I feel like I am.

Update: Guys, wow. Thank you all so much for the support. It’s a relief to hear that 1) I’m not alone and 2) it doesn’t necessarily get easier, it just becomes more manageable.  I’m definitely going to start implementing the tricks you guys mentioned to avoid burning out. 

Godspeed to everyone!",44,191,46.12658085616926,GradSchool
Should i tell my professor/director that my parent is dying?,"My mom is dying. I'm still grieving over it and processing it. I may need to miss a day to fly out to visit her. Maybe need to miss when she finally does pass away and I need to make funeral arrangements. I start classes next week and I'm so stressed out. Should I tell my professor & director what's going on now, early on, in case i need a deferment or extension on papers later...",44,189,52.361904930243334,GradSchool
I’m happy and grad school is great,"In light of the recent uptick in posts about how miserable and unfair grad school is, I’d like to say that I’m extremely happy, love my work and advisor, and think that grad school is a completely fair and honest, albeit intense, system. If you’re a prospective grad student, don’t be discouraged by this sub. Grad school can be difficult, but it might still be the right choice for you.

Edit 3: everybody be nice to each other.

Edit 2: to anybody that feels “attacked” by this post, don’t. You shared your story, I shared mine. I have no intention of delegitimizing negative experiences, but I _do_ intend to delegitimize the notion that grad school is, by its very nature, a negative experience.

Edit: As someone has pointed out, My anecdote is simply the other side of the coin. Sometimes grad school _can_ go wrong at no fault of the student. I simply meant that I don’t think the system is intrinsically unfair. Sometimes you get dealt a bad hand, to take their words. Additionally, I did not meant to imply that people posting about their struggles are not fit for grad school (in my original wording) but rather to say that people should not have doubts about their own fitness for grad school in light of those posts.",89,195,608.7941503006138,GradSchool
Prevent Carpal Tunnel (xpost r/funny),,0,193,665.9476109487618,GradSchool
I defend in twenty minutes,"Nothing here but another post about another defense. 

Good news is I brought a ritual offering of coffee and kolaches for my committee.

 Hopefully the jitters will go away soon.

Edit 1: presentation and meeting just finished. They booted me out of the room and are conversing behind closed doors. Presentation went well though, no booing or objects tossed at me, so that's nice.

Edit 2: I passed! I'm now a master of science! Yay!",25,192,886.3890924302433,GradSchool
Defended today; '*' gone. Couldn't wait to post this.,,15,196,889.9767776154285,GradSchool
I defended my dissertation today!,It's done! I defended! Goodbye asterisk. My committee was overwhelmingly positive and I can hardly believe it is over! I also got engaged! And I also got to open all my withheld birthday presents from March 28th! I am so overstimulated and overexcited! falkdjf;lsadifuoasimvda!!,30,191,1293.8763030783916,GradSchool
My qualifier is in one hour and I'm surviving off r/eyebleach rn. Wish me luck!,,19,193,152.46072437468777,GradSchool
Bullied and isolated because I wouldn't have sex,"A member of my cohort asked me out and we went out to dinner together. However, when he realized I wasn't interested in having sex with him at that moment (personally I normally wait about 4 months into a relationship, this is my decision and I know others may agree or disagree) he told me I was an idiot and that it was surprising that I have a master's degree and am too stupid to be in a PhD program. He further told me that since I don't put out that I offer nothing of value to him and that he was going to make it known that I'm a messed up slut that purposefully leads guys on. 


I asked why he couldn't just leave things as is and keep a friendly colleague relationship with me and he reiterated that the only reason anyone would ever be interested in me would be for sexual favours and since I can't even do that that I should stop coming to the grad student events since no one wants someone like me there. 


I feel like trash. I thought he was my friend. He's also a key player in the social events that my department holds and he's made it clear that I'm not welcome there. I don't know what to do. And when he sees me around in public he still pretends that were all buddy buddy but crosses a line with physical contact (hand on my lower back, hand on my thigh, grabbing my arm very tightly when I move away or if I say something he doesn't like). I'm only 4 months into my PhD and I feel hopeless at surviving here. ",83,190,627.1472405783915,GradSchool
"On my bad days here at the end of my PhD, I watch this video and it always helps a little. Posting it here today in case it helps give someone else the push they need.",,20,188,1268.2570553932062,GradSchool
What do you think of professors that ban laptops in classes?,"I'm in a master's program. One of my professors said that if we want to use laptops we need to sit in the back to not be distracting, which kind of made sense...it was more of a hand notetaking class anyway (economics).

Another professor I have now has banned laptops all together. And she makes us do a ""minute paper"" in the first 5 min of class for attendance which you will miss if you are late and counts as a mark against your participation score. It's a 6pm class and most of us work full-time and have long commutes during traffic hour, so inevitably sometimes you are late to class.

It feels like high school and as adults I've seen a few people goofing off on their laptops, but the majority are taking notes or googling additional info on what we are talking about. 

Is this becoming more common?",116,191,17.122772985798893,GradSchool
Been going for 4 hours and I need to present my masters thesis in 7 minutes.,,45,190,383.7767313191322,GradSchool
Undergrad to grad.,,6,191,1345.569312337651,GradSchool
Watching 30 Rock again and thought you might also enjoy this.,,12,190,1976.060458170984,GradSchool
When Thanos wiped out half the universe...,"Was it a simple random sample, or stratified by some variables?",33,189,173.01239104135445,GradSchool
A humble piece of advice for newly admitted graduate students,"First, if you’ve been admitted, congratulations!!! Welcome to the beginning of your career. I want to offer all of you soon-to-be graduate students a piece advice that I, as an Astrophysics PhD student myself, truly wish someone would have given to me. 

That is:
If you have any issues, whether it be mental health issues, academic issues, imposter syndrome, family issues, or anything you’re hoping to mend up when you get into graduate school, FIX IT NOW. Do not wait. Skip your vacation/summer-off to study your most challenging subjects, to get some therapy, or to do whatever you need to do that you’re putting off. 

I’ve heard that most people have a hard time their first year, but if you have any gaps (small as they may seem now) that aren’t yet filled, fill them now or they will be amplified in your first year(s) of grad school. 

I don’t want to make this about myself or scare you, but I seriously contemplated suicide for the first time in grad school. I didn’t sleep, I became clinically malnourished, and felt so alone. I was behind in some subjects and I had underlying health issues I was able to cope with in undergrad so I neglected to treat them. This snowballed into a cluster of mental and academic issues that could have been prevented had I studied hard over the summer and gone into some therapy before grad school. 
I’m getting help now and things are getting better for me, but it has been a rough transition and it would have been MUCH easier to mend these things before I started my PhD program. 

If I can encourage just one person to even slightly prepare a little more now and over the summer (in whatever way they need to) for graduate school I will feel really happy.

(Side note: If i could go back, i would accept my admission again, but for those of you who do not get accepted into graduate school, know that it’s definitely more okay than you think it is.)",35,192,255.64898826357668,GradSchool
me irl,,6,190,596.0467081709841,GradSchool
"When my undergrad asks me what my plans for vacation are, and it takes me several minutes to realize he's talking about spring break",,28,190,1313.2225183561693,GradSchool
"""Getting credit"" as a junior researcher","So I began thinking about this when I got lost in the Katie Bauman vs. whole team Reddit posts. Not to rehash that, you can find plenty of discussions about that already.

I saw some comments such as that you can't possibly have a recent graduate/post-doc lead a team of researchers. The people making that argument wanted wanted to give credit to older researchers. I feel like that happens quite a bit in academia too, when we say ""oh that paper out of so-and-so's lab"" rather than remember a newer first author. Though this isn't the case all the time.

It just reminded me of the fact that most people don't quite understand what grad students/post-docs do and the academic structure. The blood, sweat, and tears that often go into a first author publication. What your PI actually might do on a project (varies).

I just wanted to take a moment to reflect and acknowledge how much grad students and post docs often do to move projects forward!

Feel free to share your experiences about being a junior researcher in your field!",45,187,187.4460253006137,GradSchool
"A Prominent Economist’s Death Prompts Talk of Mental Health in the Professoriate; Alan B. Krueger, a titan in economics, died by suicide last weekend. Conversation ensued about mental illness in the professoriate and how professional success does not suppress personal struggles.",,5,187,209.33932391172482,GradSchool
So... today I cried...,"Ugh, I feel so dumb right now. We had a 10 min oral examination, face to face, that was supposed to be super easy. I was the last to go and everyone else was going on about how it was a breeze but the prof and I... we... didn't get on. I can't pinpoint what it was but from the first class I had with him, he was always short with me even though I happened to agree completely with him on a subject that is very important to me. I don't know if he just decided that he didn't like my tone, or he assumed that because I'm a mature student with some more life experience I'd be arrogant or stuck in my ways or what. I honestly don't know because I literally AGREE WITH HIM ON EVERY POINT! Not to brown nose. Or for a grade... I genuinely do! 

But, it's apparently well known among my classmates that he is very partial to certain students for no discernible reason and others he just starts off disliking. According to them I drew the short straw. I just... froze... I guess. And then he asked me if there was something wrong with me and my ability to put things together, which absolutely didn't help. Kind of called me stupid in a roundabout way. And I was so frustrated because I couldn't express what I wanted to say that I burst into tears. Well, that's going to help. 

I guess it was always going to be a disaster, this ""examination"" reunited all the things I was weakest at and most insecure about with a prof with whom I had, through no fault of my own, a bad rapport from the start. I'm trying to relativise, it's just one grade, in one class. I've been out of school for a decade and my background is in a completely different field, it's no surprise being put on the spot doesn't work for me. I'm doing well in literally every other class... But there's something about crying in front/because of THIS guy that just... URGH! 

I have to face my classmates tomorrow and though I like them and I know they'll be supportive of me, it makes me feel so ashamed because I am a good 10 years older than them and I should not be reduced to tears like this because of a stupid exam. I'm supposed to be above this and stress seems like a poor excuse when we all have stress. As far as I know, no one else's cried. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",71,188,313.22425446728033,GradSchool
When you aren't prepared to give a class presentation...,,18,190,728.9288146524656,GradSchool
"Dear Gradschool friends, Remember your problems are not isolated to yourself there are many others experiencing the same crippling anxiety and fustrations as you. There is no weakness in seeking help, you are not less of a person, you are not an inferior researcher.","You have friends and family who care about you.  They may not understand what we do and the dynamics that we face but this is another qualification in a list of qualifications the world has to offer that we chose to embark on.  

No qualification is worth it if it erodes and destroys the relationships that have brought you thus far.  No qualification is worth it, if it's constant belittling till parts of you go to those dark places of the heart.

Seek help if you need it, you are not alone in the fight.

I wish you all the best.

",22,191,1798.9728308561691,GradSchool
ETS with a hilarious tweet this morning.,https://twitter.com/ETSInsights/status/1176516430520561664?s=20,68,186,14.395053078391486,GradSchool
My diploma arrived today. Why did no one tell me it came with a tiny version for my wallet?!?,"Seriously though, the past few years have been tough, but it’s sad to see that it’s over. Getting my masters was fulfilling in a way my bachelors just wasn’t. I feel like I had to work and put my all into my classes, and I feel better for having gone through the challenge. I survived. I even met some wonderful people along the way. My cohort was amazing, and I can see us staying at least somewhat in touch. It’s just a lot and sort of bittersweet. I’m so glad I did this. I’m so glad it’s over. I’m gonna miss it.",32,186,45.06912715246556,GradSchool
"Paper in review for nearly four years, finally accepted with no revisions.",,12,186,1128.0281202080212,GradSchool
When r/funny and r/gradschool collide,,8,188,1145.0832243746877,GradSchool
The research process,,24,191,1329.0994165043173,GradSchool
Does anyone else feel like all the wrong people can sense my schedule?,"""oh you're in the busiest part of your week? Let me lean on your door frame and tell you a nonsense story about knitting for half an hour when you're planning a class and prepping for a presentation""

I'm not bitter at all /s",30,185,342.39857159690996,GradSchool
Grad student at my university found guilty of poisoning postdoc,,28,188,353.97845585616926,GradSchool
"I just defended my dissertation, and I wanted to offer some encouragement to *all* of you","It seems like most people posting around here are in the sciences, and although I work in the Humanities (English/film), I successfully defended my dissertation after a pretty fair amount of hardship and life events, and I wanted to encourage everyone to lean into their friendships/peers and to not give up on graduate work if finishing means something to you.

While ABD, I got married, moved to a new city (which meant finishing ""on the road""), had a daughter (or my wife did, really), was primary caregiver for our daughter for eighteen months, and had two pretty major surgeries (one of them unexpected/emergency). These things obviously delayed me and slowed my pace, but I held on to all the encouragement I could and tried hard to keep working even when I went long periods (nine months at one period) without hearing from my director.

I don't know what all of you are working on, and I know some of your situations are challenging and difficult. But I believe if you made it to wherever you are then you can make it the rest of the way. The best dissertation is a done dissertation, and you can get there!",30,187,417.0708979857989,GradSchool
Academia: where everything is pushed back and the due dates don't matter,,11,186,594.2289303932064,GradSchool
I got an interview for a funded PhD!,"To say I'm excited would be an understatement! I've been applying for everything left and right for over a year, but rejections kept piling up. Never even got to the interview stage. But then, the stars aligned or something and I honestly think I have a decent chance of getting this.

Has anyone had online interviews before? Any tips? I have about a week to get ready. It's an English university by the way, if that helps at all. I'm currently overseas, hence the online interview. 

EDIT: Guys! Honestly, thank you all so much for the tips. I'll make sure to follow everything to a T. I have a good feeling about this. You're the best!",14,186,218.34257622653965,GradSchool
People get excited about things they know a lot about,"This is a topic I see a lot on this thread. Early students are concerned that they can't get into a lab that perfectly matches their interest. I'm a littler older than most PhD students and it's been my experience that as people develop knowledge and expertise in a subject they develop excitement and passion.

Don't study something you hate, but if it's tangentially related to your interests, take a shot.",14,188,516.9295438191323,GradSchool
I just passed candidacy!,"It's been nearly a month since the written exam and a week since the oral exam and I heard the news an hour ago. Months of studying full-time, chugging through homework problems and reading textbooks... it's all been worth it ;_; ",15,188,679.2353887265397,GradSchool
Whenever a professor tries to reassure me about the funding climate,,2,183,907.4312452080212,GradSchool
Including major should be mandatory,"There are so many posts in this subreddit that ask for advice without the (prospective) student saying what their major is. The advice sought, can in many instances, only be provided when major is known.",36,184,499.8930854857989,GradSchool
"After all these years I still wish math instructors would skip fewer steps... ""I leave it to you to complete the proof""",,14,184,541.1199489117248,GradSchool
I tried to summarize my grad school experience using gifs from Seinfeld. A wise use of my time before spring break instead of working on a lit review,,14,183,579.3375067820951,GradSchool
"To all my old friends, when I asked them ""how's research going?"" and ""how long until you graduate?"" every time I saw them (before I started grad school myself)","I'm so sorry.

I'm so, so, so, so, so, sorry.",36,185,1154.0269859487619,GradSchool
"It took until 20th grade, but I finally did it! Think my parents will take me out for ice cream?",,15,186,1241.2447174302433,GradSchool
I passed!!!,Earlier this summer I took my first round of qualifying exams. I passed the Macroeconomics one on the first go but I had to retake Micro. I took it last Friday and I just found out today that I passed! I am so excited that I can finally start working on some research!!,16,184,55.098513726539636,GradSchool
PI stole my entire thesis and there's nothing I can do about it,"I graduated after 6 years and found a job in industry, leaving behind an unfinished draft of a paper delineating a pretty cool discovery. I just found out that my PI had published it and given 1st authorship to a postdoc in the lab (who is probably headed for academia). He has done this before, but I never thought it would happen to me. It sucks that there's nothing I can do about it.

Edited to add: Yes I wanted to publish it. My PI wanted to wait until I left the lab to submit it, and when he did, I wasn't first author. He also added half the lab to the author list for no reason. Yes, I contacted both the PI and first author, but they're ghosting me. It's the biggest paper the lab has seen in 9 years and he did the same thing in 2009 (gave a postdoc a grad student's work). 

Edited to add: I was in the lab for 6 years and developed my thesis and story over that time. My thesis was published right before I left the lab, and the paper (same story and same data) was published right after I left. The project/data wasn’t abandoned.",47,181,353.3508285413544,GradSchool
I quit in week six,"I have had chronic pain for several years and I thought it was manageable now so I applied to, got accepted, and enrolled in a PhD program. Turns out I was wrong. Just wanted to say how much I respect all of you for sticking with it even through all the challenges.

Edit: Wow, thanks for the gold! What a great day! ",65,184,378.40263409691,GradSchool
When your experiments aren't going well,,11,185,495.34618733765075,GradSchool
"Throughout the course of my years in graduate school, I kept a running list of the best advice given to me, and the strategies that helped keep me sane. I hope it will prove useful to others!",,30,181,552.4441618746878,GradSchool
My newest lab equipment. Super helpful for those mindless repetitive tasks.,,28,184,619.7177266895026,GradSchool
Holy Shit. I did It,"This time last year I was a second year PhD student with an unplanned new born and a severe case of postpartum depression manifesting as work anxiety. I could see no path to success,  and I seriously considered quitting my program. This semester I wrote and defended my proposal, took the most intense ecological statistics class I've ever had,  taught 2 sections of herpetology,  finished a week of written preliminary exams, and just passed my oral exam. Feels fucking good. Time to get a babysitter and drink all the beer. ",17,184,1265.1197868746879,GradSchool
"When my weekly assigned reading climbs above 1000 pages, I always think of this famous quote from Socrates...",,21,186,2070.055226689503,GradSchool
Have you seen Shawshank Redemption?,I'm realizing wrapping up grad school (on a non-academic path) is like getting out of prison: I have no idea what I'm supposed to do with myself and I'm not really sure I know how to do anything. ,23,185,221.07964798579889,GradSchool
Defense done!,"After 6 years in grad school I finally defended my dissertation. Grad school somehow feels like it took forever and flew by at the same time. Getting the PhD has been a goal of mine for the last 10 years and it hasn’t sunk in yet that it’s done. I still have a few papers to finish up with the current group before starting a postdoc in a few months.

Grad school was the hardest thing I’ve done, but I can honestly say I don’t regret it at all. I’ve gotten to work with some incredible people that have become lifelong friends. I’ve also had to deal with some toxic individuals but I learned how to deal with these types of people professionally. 

My advisor was demanding but they were also incredibly supportive and truly cared about all of the students in the lab. The projects were difficult and there were times I didn’t think I could hack it, but in the end it all came together.

Whew, now it’s time to get back to work!",30,185,371.45449752283594,GradSchool
BACKUP EVERYTHING,"Dropbox just ate my thesis (which is due Monday, naturally) after Word froze up.


 BUT!!! Because someone else on this forum had mentioned their experience with the cloud not being infallible, I had many, many backups. Thank you, whoever you are. Let this be a lesson to someone else! Backups, and NOT just in the cloud.",44,184,570.1831317820952,GradSchool
Me before defending my thesis yesterday.,,16,182,930.2861873376509,GradSchool
Adviser cheated on his wife... with my fiancee. Any words of wisdom?,"Yeah, yeah, it's a shitty situation, and believe me, I've already been to the brink of suicide over it and now want to put my life back together. My question for you guys and gals is if you have any advice on changing advisers. For context I'm a third-year PhD student and am knee-deep in data collection. None of the other professors in the department, to my knowledge, conduct the kind of research I've been doing, so I'm at a loss. How do I move forward without a suitable replacement adviser? I suppose I could look into transferring to another school but I can barely make ends meet financially where I am, let alone afford to move.  
  
Thanks in advance for any guidance... any at all.",42,182,1638.6332938191322,GradSchool
The university is a ticking time bomb: Treating nearly 75 percent of the professoriate as disposable is not sustainable,,58,183,181.41030770802112,GradSchool
Introducing new subreddit r/ByeByeAdacemia,"Thanks to the mods for allowing this post.

Just wanted to let you know that there is a new subreddit, [r/ByeByeAcademia](https://www.reddit.com/r/ByeByeAcademia) for people transitioning from academia to non-academia jobs (which is most of us at some point). It's open to people from all fields\*. Pls share your articles and stories. Hopefully in time, we will build a community for those who are moving on to the next stage.

&#x200B;

Happy New Year!

&#x200B;

\*Edit: changed ""science and social sciences"" to ""all fields"". Not neglecting anyone. It's my personal bias (more than just a STEM bias. I didn't interacted with anyone outside my department in grad school...) Maybe in the future we can have more specialization.",30,180,293.5973100228359,GradSchool
"I would say, ""why didn't anybody warn me how hard grad school is"", except everybody did.",There's so much work to do.  Constantly.  It never ends.,53,185,561.6358979857989,GradSchool
Do the stuff that matters.,"As the semester starts there will be no end of things for you to do, so try to remember to do what matters for you, your degree, and your sanity!",22,183,57.17506465246556,GradSchool
"I thought I found a way out of debt, but now I’m just sad",I thought I solved my grad school debt problems by selling my eggs (something I’ve long joked about as I don’t want children). I found out today that one of my scholarships was unexpectedly not renewed and I actually started looking into it as a serious option. When I almost started drooling fantasizing that I would only need to take out half of my anticipated PLUS loan I realized there is absolutely no way I would make it through the screenings with my family history of depression and alcoholism. I’m laughing and crying and only could share with you guys.,44,183,119.01568965246555,GradSchool
Is anyone else very sensitive to a bad night's sleep?,"I feel that just one night of interupted/not enough sleep makes my brain so foggy the entire day, and I just cant make sense of anything I am doing. I feel that it cant be normal to be so sensitive to sleep, and its not good because so many things can cause interrupted sleep",37,180,97.32725215246555,GradSchool
What my advisor looks like when telling me to basically just bury data that contradicts his hypotheses,,25,182,868.2752729857989,GradSchool
Today it finally happened...,"I tried to open the lab with my house key.

This is my home now, this is my life.",12,180,2021.3103655783916,GradSchool
My therapist said I'm internalizing my advisor's feedback too much....,"... to the extent that it feels like their critiques are about me as a person. Which fuels feelings of shame and inadequacy that are hindering my progress. 

I'm like, yeah, that's an accurate depiction of what's going on. Good advice to try to not internalize it but man, achieving such a thing sounds like a bigger feat than writing the dissertation itself. Yet I know it's a common dilemma.

Had anyone else made substantive progress in not taking their advisor's feedback so personally while being a grad student?",45,183,75.29029613394704,GradSchool
"After 8 years of being certain I was going to pursue my PhD, I think I've fully decided against going to graduate school.","I received my BA in Psychology with a minor in biology from a state school. For the past 8 years I've been dead set on completing a PhD in Cognitive Neuroscience.

I loved my faculty, I loved the research I did, I felt intelligent, I felt like I was working towards something real, and I felt like I had purpose. I did a kick-ass thesis. Didn't publish, found significant results, did a replication that showed previous results were a Type 1 error, but it was a rigorous design imo with a replication! For an undergrad thesis, I was proud.

The last 2 years (going on my third now) I've been working as a research assistant at a University hospital. 

My undergrad GPA was lackluster  (2.86 overall at graduation, 3.2 Major GPA, 3.3 overall if you cut off my first 3 semesters) due to a rough first few semesters (Lot of family problems), so I felt it was necessary to get some actual research experience if I was to be accepted into any desirable program.

I'm now 25. By this fall, I'll be co-author on my first 2 published papers (potentially a third!). I have access to a huge amount of data from my lab, and I could try to first-author a paper if I wanted to. I don't know if that really matters now though. 

As I said, I'm 25. For my first 1.5 years in my current position, I was making roughly 30k/year, in one of the most expensive cities in the world. I also have a fair amount of debt I'm paying off. This led to 0 savings, and some nice new credit debt that built up.

I'm making a better salary now, enough to save a bit but not much. This is where my fears and doubts come in. I have already been struggling with a low salary. I make a *slightly* better wage right now, but still not much at all. It's liveable though.

I'm terrified of entering grad school, and earning under 30k/year for potentially 5-7 years. I don't know how people do it. I want to start building my life. 

I don't want to *just* start climbing my way out of debt at 32. I want to have *kids* at 32, and I can't do that if I'm struggling financially to the point I can't provide a secure life.

Beyond the sacrifice of a low salary for 4-7 years, there seems to be *zero* guarantee of employment. I go on academic subreddits, I read news articles, and I see *terrifying* prospects for employment. 

People who can't find anything but Adjunct positions working 3 jobs and barely scraping by. People who can't even find *that*. 

I walk through the university where I work, and I see the med school/grad school students studying, I see their presentations, and I think *I love this, I miss this, I want to do this.*, but when I think of the sacrifices required...I honestly don't think I can.

So I'm a bit lost right now. I don't have a solid plan for the first time in a very long time. I've stopped studying for the GRE. I'll only be at my current job for roughly one more year, so I feel like I have a bit of a time-limit on deciding what to do next.

I may try to apply for research coordinator positions. The salary is typically in a range I'm quite comfortable with, at least for the time being. 

I also may try to break into the computer science field, although I have no formal education so this may be difficult. 

Anyways, I'm scared folks. I'm disappointed, in myself and in my prospects. But I'm also hopeful. I feel like I do have options, they just might take a lot of work to become viable. 

I just wanted to make this rant, and if anyone has had a similar experience/feels like they're feeling the same way, I'd love to hear your story. 

",63,178,299.30449752283596,GradSchool
"""Grad Life Isn't Bad After All"" - Newly hired prof [OC]",,18,180,520.7525993746877,GradSchool
Former Stanford/Cal Grad Students: Our Professors Raped Us,,55,183,674.2651919672804,GradSchool
Complexion of a grad student,,25,180,1666.8660253006137,GradSchool
I passed my qualifying exam!,"Passed the whole thing! I just found out 6 weeks after submitting the final response. It’s been quite a suspenseful time. 

I’m so relieved! :D",13,177,10.678513726539634,GradSchool
Has anyone else found grad school incredible lonely and isolating? Any solutions?,"I just finished my first year of my PhD and I keep hoping I will click with people in my cohort but it just doesn't seem to be happening, we don't really spend time together outside the department, etc. Those who I am relatively close with have partners, family/friends nearby, etc. Meanwhile, the place where my university is isn't the most social and it's difficult to meet young adults and new people. I have friends an hour and a half drive away but sometimes it just sucks to drive that long to see someone. On the plus side, I absolutely love my lab and my work. However, I am more or less in a situation where I am fine and indifferent Monday to Friday but when Friday hits at 5pm, I am miserable and dread it because I will just be entirely alone the entire weekend. Meanwhile, I'd love to meet people by signing up for some hobby outside of work but money is so tight that I am reluctant to pay a weekly cost for classes for some hobby or activity. I feel stuck and in a rut. Work is great, but I am incredibly unhappy in terms of my social life. I am grateful that I don't have the problems with advisor/research that many others posting on this sub have expressed. However, this week-to-week constant loneliness is really draining and just killing me. I feel so frustrated right now. I know some cohorts end up being quite close and compatible, but I have this fear (that is increasingly likely) that I will be friends with very few people in my department and cohort, and those who I do become friends with, it will be nearly acquaintance level. I would be fine with that but it's also so difficult to make friends in this area.

&#x200B;

Has anyone else had similar experiences where you want to be closer friends with people in your cohort but you're afraid you may just not be compatible? Or rather, just an experience of feeling isolated and lonely, especially in cities/towns where it's difficult to meet young adults? Has anyone had this experience and found a way to improve it and change things? Or meet friends outside of work?",36,178,100.08134937468779,GradSchool
Was anyone else schocked by the difference in difficulty of grad studies versus undergrad?,"I'm doing my masters in physics in Germany and my first semester here was hell. Literally nothing and I mean nothing in my bachelor's studies prepared for the giant chasm in difficulty from undergrad to graduate studies. I spent the whole first semester wondering if grad school was a mistake and that my bachelor's studies didn't prepare me at all for this. It's not like I was a slack off a undergrad student either, I graduated with a GPA of 3.95 with maybe half of the effort I put into grad school currently and I've already bombed two exams.

Am I the only one with this experience??",89,175,134.4660253006137,GradSchool
Conference Paper was Accepted!,"I just wanted to take a second to post that my conference paper was accepted recently! I know it is just a conference paper, and not a journal paper or anything, but it is going to be the first thing I have ever published so I am pretty excited. It only took me 3 years to get here but hopefully the ball will start rolling quicker now!",15,178,436.79964798579886,GradSchool
Passed my comp exams!,"Thought I’d celebrate with you all here—after a year of reading, over 150 texts read, and some 90 pages written in 84 hours, I’m officially ABD! Woot!",10,176,508.94706696728036,GradSchool
Passed!,"I successfully defended my dissertation document this afternoon! Still need some revisions, a few larger edits as well, but my committee is not worried. 

At the end of the day, I got the signatures and handshakes! ",8,175,215.8926919672804,GradSchool
I got the highest score on the infamous final boss midterm!,"I'm really really excited and want to brag for a second.

There's one professor in my department whose midterms are often regarded to as impossibly hard. I heard about how difficult it was on my interview day of the program from one of the 1st year students (now 2nd year). Ever since orientation day, students and other professors talked about how almost everyone tends to fail this guy's midterm and that it was a rite of passage to experience how hard it was. It made me SO anxious, there was no study guide or even a little hint of how to study, and I was absolutely convinced that I was going fail, but it was a matter of how badly I failed to me. I was also incredibly afraid of having the worst score among my peers, and I was convinced that I would because I just generally felt like the least competent member of my cohort (imposter syndrome, anyone?).

WELL, I got a [98/100](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zS1cLOIxsQ8) and I literally checked it over and over again to make sure that is was his handwriting said because I was in such disbelief. AND it was the highest score in the class! Take THAT imposter syndrome!

Thanks for letting me brag for a second! :)",9,177,362.6945785413544,GradSchool
Imposter’s Syndrome can be overcome; here’s how I did it (sorry for clickbaiting a title),"Hi all. I’m all too familiar with imposter's syndrome. It has eaten away at my psyche for the past 5 years. I’m proud to say I’m finally past it. How did I get past it you might ask? Here’s how.

1.) I was finally honest with myself. Yes, my research is average, no top tier publications. But how realistic is it anyhow? I spent my time working in a niche subtopic that’s promising, but definitely not hot to trot in the public eye. I finally admitted to myself that sure, my publications by the time I graduate are not going to be amazing. However, they are passable. And you know what? These standards we are being held to as science lovers and grad students are ridiculous. A metric for how competent someone is as a researcher should absolutely exist, but expecting everyone to publish top tier research as if it’s normal to expect tons of breakthroughs at a consistent rate is insane. It defies reality, which is that science and math is part of the reality we live in. It is our job to discover it; not invent it. It is not a reasonable system to expect everyone make top tier advances all the time; ESPECIALLY during the 4-5 years you’re a STUDENT.

2.) I accepted my own shortcomings. There is more I could have done to further my career during my time in academia. But, I am human. It is understandable that I am not top tier; most people (overwhelming percentages) are not. 

Now that we’re past the acceptance of self-deprecation, let’s examine what we can do to bolster our understanding of our own realities as grad students.

3.) Look at Facebook. Does that sound weird? Sure. But it’s a great tool for solving this mental health problem. How many of your friends on Facebook could likely fill your role and have as much knowledge as you do on the topic you study? Probably 1-2% of your friends, maybe more depending on how many university friends you have. The point, however, is that your Facebook friends are a decent sample of the overall population. You ARE qualified for the work you do. Not everyone can do it. You’ve demonstrably put in time and effort to learning this subject matter. Not many people have done that across the world for your particular subject. In fact, a strong majority have not. You are not an imposter.

4.) I’ve accepted the reality that I will not be tenure track faculty, and neither will the majority of us for that matter. And you know what else? Once the curtain of reality for academia has been pulled back, I don’t want that job anyways. They manage students and write grant proposals. It sounds like it may not be the jobs we imagined it would be anyhow.

5.) Look at the contributions you’ve made (however small you feel they may be) to science. That is the reality of science; it gets pushed forward nanometer by nanometer. Every once in a while one of us gets lucky and makes a breakthrough that makes their entire career; that is not likely to happen if you consider the standpoint that science is to be discovered, not invented.

The system isn’t set up to do scientific research. The system is set up to profit off of students that want to learn, and try to get them to compete at the highest of high levels we have ever seen in human history (in terms of intellectual adversity). The system results in breakthroughs only because it exhausts the talent to the point of breakdowns.

You are not alone, and you DO know your subject matter vastly better than the layperson (who has no idea). 

I promise you, you are not an imposter.

Best of luck to you all, and remember, most of us got into this for the love of science. Academia forces us to compete with each other, but in reality we all have the goal of advancing science together in mind.

Edit: I would say imposter’s syndrome feels like it is is probably linked with unspoken (but sometimes verbally explicit) expectation to perform exceedingly well. This makes people feel like they don’t know their subject whatsoever, when in reality it’s somewhere between the two, mostly closer to not being the best but still pretty good. Imposter syndrome is when not being the best makes you feel like you aren’t even pretty good, it makes you feel like you’re bad at it.",16,178,381.9349604857989,GradSchool
A Scientists March on Washington is being organized on Facebook - it has grown from 5 to 19k today alone,,22,180,993.7622058561693,GradSchool
A somewhat not-gentle guide to getting into grad school when you have subpar grades.,"I see a lot of prospective grads posting here that they received < 3.0 GPA and wanting to know if they have a shot of getting into grad school.  A lot of the responses people post are the same, but I thought I'd post my thoughts on this as a summary.  Source: I'm a STEM professor at an R1.

First, I want to give a bit of a background into my process.  I get > 30 applications to work with me every year, so I don't have time to look really carefully at each one.  The first thing I do is run through the applications and immediately ignore any with < 3.2 GPA in their last school.  You can see the immediate problem here -- I'm unlikely to even spend much (if any) time reading your application and looking at the subtleties -- I flag your application ""no"" and move on.  There are a few exceptions to this:

- If you have an incredible GRE (> 95% on quantitative and verbal) this will pique my attention.  
- If you have contacted me prior to the application, I will spend more time looking at your application.

Ok, so this gives you three action items to get me to read your application: 1) nail the GREs (I mean you need to SLAUGHTER them), 2) contact me in the month before the applications are due asking me informative questions about grad school and my research, or 3) Go back to school and take new classes and prove you can get a higher GPA.

All this does is opens the door to me looking at your application, but now you are in competition with folks with much better GPAs.  What do I now look at?

- I will QUICKLY look at your grades and see what you did poorly in -- for me, there are some classes I know are red flags for excellence in my field (B or worse in math, statistics and/or computer science).  If you didn't get As in those, good-bye.  The only way to fix this is to go back and re-take ADVANCED versions of these classes and get As in them.
- I will read (or, to be honest, skim) your cover letter/research statement to see how you write.  Typos are guaranteed to place you in the ""no"" pile -- for two reasons -- 1) writing is incredibly important in grad school, and 2) typos/bad grammar indicates a lack of focus, work ethic, and/or being able to ask for help when you need it.  I will also see how specific or generic your statement of interest is -- if you are REALLY vague, I will assume you wrote a single letter and sent it to every grad school in the country -- this isn't good.
- IMPORTANT: I will look at your research experience and see if you have relevant experience (and skills).  I have ignored straight-A students for not having research experience.  I have accepted students with lower grades than other applicants simply because they had relevant experience (and skills).
- I will cross-check these experiences against your letters of recommendation, but to be honest I don't put a lot of stock in letters.  What I'm looking for are code-words that the letter writer is telling me you aren't a particularly good applicant but they are too passive-aggressive to have told you no.  I will ignore most letters that just came from people who you took a class with.  They don't know you, so they are typically going to just parrot back your grade and say ""They asked good questions"".  

So, action items: RESEARCH/INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE.  This is the biggest weakness in most undergrad's applications -- if you are waiting tables or filing papers, KNOCK IT OFF.  If you want to get into grad school, you need to INVEST in it and get some research experience.  Take out a loan if you have to.  This also gets your GOOD LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION (assuming you did a good job).  This can also help you write a BETTER COVER LETTER (you can even ask your supervisor for help with this).

HOWEVER, this still won't make up for bad (Bs and lower) grades in core courses -- you will need to go back and take ADVANCED classes and get As in these.  This is why I get frustrated at undergrads who screw around only to realize they just added 2+ more years of not getting paid and going into debt to get the career they wanted.

Next, assuming you make it past all this, I will schedule a call with you before accepting -- possibly fly you out.  You need to have read enough of my work to know what I'm interested in, and your interests better be in-line with mine (I get annoyed when people don't know exactly what I do and end up proposing to do something completely out of my field).  You should be prepared to ask good questions, be knowledgeable about the university and department AND THE APPLICATION PROCESS (don't ask me about due dates and deadlines).  There are good resources about phone/in-person interviews for grad school.  READ THEM.

Finally, funding: if you had a poor GPA, you are MUCH LESS LIKELY to get funding.  Be prepared for this.  Scholarships will largely be inaccessible to you -- you are likely to get TAships, RAships (if the professor has their own $$$), or may have to self pay (loans loans loans).  

Ok, wall o' text with probably a ton of typos.  Hope this is helpful!  I'm happy to take questions...

Edit: TLDR: You are going to have an uphill battle -- be prepared to invest more time (years) into getting your application to a point it is acceptable -- more research experience and getting As in advanced courses that you previously did poorly on are the best tactics. 

Edit 2: a bit of formatting/editing ...

Edit 3: to clarify ""STEM"" without giving too much away, I'm in a biological field that has both strong quantitative and field components to it.",88,178,1981.2815461339471,GradSchool
Getting Less Fat In School (Follow Up),"Hi, everyone! You may remember me from my post ""Getting Fat In School"" two weeks ago. I wanted to give an update since there was such an outpouring of support, advice, and comisery.

Since then, I've started...well, trying, and I've lost 10lbs. Obviously, the weight won't come off at that speed forever, but I'm pretty happy about it and the changes have been extremely easy.

I'm doing intermittent fasting/OMAD (the right way, this time), walking at a brisk pace for an hour 4-5x/week (usually at lunch at work), and doing 20 reps each of pushups and kettlebell swings in the morning when I wake up. I'm also drinking more water and otherwise just drinking green tea (plain/jasmine), whiskey, and I don't see having more than 2 sodas a month.

My fiancee bought me a FitBit (cheap model, like $70) and I can't stress how helpful it has been. It gives me a real way to track my activity and provides a real feeling of accountability.

I'm planning on adding more pushups and higher weight on the kettlebell swings this week. Also, I'm trying to make sure that at least one walk a week involves a rucksack (backpack) weighing 30lbs or more. I hate going to the gym ruckmarching works for me. If you want to try walking with weight, older military surplus rucksacks are pretty cheap, at surplus stores or on Amazon. 

Delete if not allowed.",27,176,272.1210137265397,GradSchool
Fear of failure turning into inaction?,I’ve noticed this a lot in my first semester in my master’s program. I wait until the last minute to study for a class because I worry I won’t understand the material. I keep putting off reading literature and writing a thesis proposal because I’m worried I won’t be able to come up with an original research project. Is there any way to overcome this? I don’t think I can keep this up for much longer ,19,176,373.6844280783915,GradSchool
A TA's Tale,"I know it's petty to complain about our students. Many of them are teenagers, and as adults and educators, we should be patient with them. We were all undergrads once, and college can be wrought with growing pains. 

But god dammit, once in a while I get an absolute monster. A veritable hurricane of entitlement, dishonesty, immaturity, and cluelessness. Somehow this student seems to take up more of my time than all of my other students put together. There is a new problem every week. When I discuss my issues with my colleagues during our weekly meetings, I am met with disbelief. ""I wish she were in my class, just because she sounds so nuts!"" they say. No. No. No you don't. 

And the emails. Oh, the emails.

Some people get nervous upon receiving an email from their advisor. I get nervous when I receive an email from this student. For example, if I send a mass email detailing what will be on the quiz, it may very well be met with an email asking what will be on the quiz. 

I am thus forced to question what is real. 

There is a test tomorrow morning? You bet your ass I'm getting an email at 11:30pm asking me to explain some concept. ""Is it a polite email, at least?"" you might wonder. No. Not even a ""Dear badluckbelle."" Just a ""do the thing for me, peon."" I am not a person. I am a 24/7 customer service line.

But is this student at least putting in effort in class? Yes, but only if you consider coming in late almost every day with lunch in tow (and not a discreet one at that -- *ramen is never discreet*) as putting in effort in class. I mean, technically she's putting effort into *something* during class time.  

""But, surely,"" you protest, ""this student understands that she won't be receiving an A in the class. She must understand that her work and effort have not been up to par.""

Oh, if only, if only. The semester is not even over and the grade grubbing has already begun. Actually, the professor who teaches in my classroom after me witnessed it today and sympathized with me, having perceived my discomfort. And pain. 

I fear the day I have to input final grades. I fear that day.

This is all just the tip of the iceberg.

--
All I can say is that I'm glad the class coordinator is understanding, even agreeing that this student is openly hostile towards me (I've forwarded emails from her) and a bit of a puzzle. And for context, this is a small (<20 student), introductory class at a selective school. The course also does not fulfill any requirement, so no one *has* to take it. You'd think it would be full of motivated, intelligent individuals. That description applies to some of my students, to be sure, but others... 

Thanks, /r/GradSchool, for giving me the space to rant. I know I'm not alone.

**UPDATE**: The semester is over, and The Email has arrived. The student is ""heartbroken"" to have received a B in the course because she worked *so hard.* Also, will there any opportunities to improve her grade? 

And thus, the story ends. ",53,176,533.0161641895025,GradSchool
MRW I decide to reference an article that's only been cited once before.,,3,176,1296.6318702080212,GradSchool
"Time to remove my *, I defended my dissertation!","I did it! I just passed my defense! Five grueling years of impostor syndrome, difficult relationships in the lab, and general academia-loathing are finally over. While this wasn't necessarily the hardest thing I've ever done, it's definitely been the long-term goal that took the longest to achieve.

Thanks to all for providing this supportive and informative community that helped me through :-)",15,177,1503.2250183561694,GradSchool
Research breakthrough two months before qualifying exam,"This bench science PhD program has been pretty hard for me. I love it, but it has been a real adjustment from the technician-type jobs I was doing before. I've struggled to stay focused on one project for long enough to push through obstacles, and I have lots of obstacles: no active students on the projects I was interested in to teach me the protocols; flaky post-docs who can't or won't make time to teach me software that they wrote and no one else has ever used; equipment malfunctions; of course, countless failed experiments.

My qualifying exam is coming up, and my adviser has mentioned several times that I don't have adequate data to show my committee. I think my mastery of the literature and most of the fundamental concepts of my field is pretty solid, but my preliminary research progress is close to non-existent. I've done lots of work, but none of it can form anything like a cohesive story. Until today.

Today I got back a critical piece of data from an instrumentation core. Just the fact that I had a sample to submit was promising, but as soon as I opened the data file it was obvious that my experimental design was good. I threw together a quick model of the next phase of the project based on this result, and it all came together exactly like I imagined it.

I showed my adviser, and he said ""If you show this to your committee, with a full analysis of these results and a solid proposal for where to take the project from here, you'll pass your exam with no trouble.""

Today was a good day.

Edit: homophones. I promise I'm fluent in English.",13,174,571.7716155783916,GradSchool
A wholesome advisor story,"(throw away because I know some of my peers are on reddit) So I know there are tons of stories about terrible advisors and the associated horror stories, I wanted to share a positive one to break up the trend. 

I was meeting with my advisor the other day waiting for undergrads to (not) show up for his office hours (I am the grader for his course). I mentioned in passing that my wife was having back surgery at the end of the month. My advisor got super concerned and was asking all kinds of questions about it, offering to help out while she is recovering, giving me phone numbers of all the people he knows who have had back surgery to contact. He has meet my wife maybe once but was genuinely concerned about her (it is after exams end and final grades are due so it won't impact my grading work for him). Then he calls me that night to say he spoke with his friend who lives near the hospital and if I want to say over night I can stay with him (I know the guy as well) and that he wants me to cancel my office hours this week to come talk with a guy he is meeting with who also had back surgery. He again offered to come help with whatever he can do, wanted to make sure my wife was going to the best doctor and offered to see if he could pull any strings to get her in somewhere else if the doctor wasn't the best. I was actually really touched by the fact that he genuinely cared about her and her surgery. He then threatened that if I hurt my back, he'll bring the exams and papers to me in the hospital to grade, then he'll kill me, and no I won't get a posthumous PhD. 

I know there are lots of problems in grad school and advisers can be a major one, but it isn't all negative, some times you get awesome people who do care about you.",13,177,678.4046364117248,GradSchool
"Pretty much, yes...",,7,173,796.2691387265397,GradSchool
Turns out I have my dream job,"My childhood dream was to be a writer. 

Now I write all day long. But the only people who ever see it are my advisors. And most of the time the critical response is ""this is stupid"". 

Just some motivational musing before a long day of manuscript rewrites. ",17,175,979.4086989117247,GradSchool
PSA: Googling LaTeX.....,"Googling ""LaTeX"" with your computer screen projected in a large public space is not a rabbit hole you want to go down.",16,173,206.01156928209517,GradSchool
Overheard my advisor say he underestimated me. Should I be offended or complimented? Why do people always underestimate me?,"So I overheard my boss telling some of my committee members that he really underestimated me. 

I am not sure whether I should take that as a compliment or an insult. On the one hand I guess it's better than him overestimating me and it is a good thing that I surpassed his expectations. On the other hand I can't help but wonder why he had low expectations of me in the first place. 

I know when I started in grad school a lot of people treated me like I was really dumb and had low expectations for me. I can't figure out what it is about me that sends out that message that I am so incapable/stupid. I also recently published a paper and one of my colleagues/friends said that no one was expecting that of me and I should be proud. (Backhanded insult?)

What are things that make you assume someone is smart/capable vs  stupid/incapable? I would like to work on presenting myself better in the future.",69,172,222.21578224505816,GradSchool
Defending my master's thesis in t-minus 73 minutes. Wish me luck!,It's been a long journey (maybe not in absolute time - has it really only been 2 1/2 years?!) and I'm looking forward to the future!,25,173,1651.407807708021,GradSchool
A Bad Grad Day and Homesickness [OC],,19,175,543.7102382635767,GradSchool
It’s terrifying but I submitted my PhD applications today! :D,"So I’m going to be a ball of nerves until I find out whether I was accepted or not, but I’m excited nonetheless. I applied to four schools, with one being the school where I’m doing my MA currently. I just felt like sharing. :)

",41,176,687.0567776154286,GradSchool
Want to write a letter to your Congressman/Senator about the Graduate Student Tax? We'll deliver it in person!,">The GOP tax bill that passed the House of Representatives yesterday represents a threat to the livelihood of graduate workers everywhere. As graduate workers in the District of Columbia, many members of Georgetown Alliance of Graduate Employees (GAGE) do not have voting representation in Congress who they can call to express their opposition to the bill. But our location in the nation’s capital also presents an opportunity: to go directly to the offices of your senators and representatives and deliver your letters, petitions, and other appeals to oppose the bill. We are reaching out in solidarity to ask you to send us your letters, petitions, or whatever you have opposing the GOP tax bill by Monday, Nov. 27, at 2pm so that we can deliver these appeals directly to members of Congress. Please feel free to send us your materials by email at GAGEorganizing[at]gmail.com or mail the to Georgetown Alliance of Graduate Employees - AFT, 555 New Jersey Ave NW, Room 2030, Washington DC, 20001.

You can of course, per rule 5, write a letter in support of the tax, if you so wish. We will still deliver it. Everyone's voices should be heard!

We're looking for Department-level / group-level letters, but if you just want to write an individual one, we can do that too! ",13,172,693.4230044672804,GradSchool
I compiled a list of general PhD advice guides and academic resources that have been helpful for me during my PhD. Let me know if you have others in mind I left off the list!,,9,175,719.4041040043174,GradSchool
Just submitted my thesis!,,16,175,1629.853907245058,GradSchool
Why I’m leaving my biochemistry PhD program [rant],"In my junior year of college, my undergraduate advisor referred to his time at graduate school “the best years of \[his\] life.” My experience here fell far short of what my professor led me to expect. These last four years have instead been the most miserable ones of my entire life. My expectations for my academic career here were entirely dashed, mostly because of a noticeable lack of a support structure.

My first consideration for leaving the program actually came even before I qualified. Throughout my first and second year, I experienced repeated rejection and bullying, especially from my cohort and classmates, the likes of which I haven’t experienced since middle school. After a first-year class workshop where we discussed research papers, an acquaintance told me that other classmates were saying “the girl with the glasses and the deep voice” was “fighting with the TA” when I was having a polite academic disagreement about a point in the paper. After that instance, I stopped wanting to participate in debates and ask questions in class. Slowly, my cohort stopped inviting me to lunch with them as I struggled to “fit in.” By my first February, I remember openly crying in the Molecular Biology class after hearing my yearmates discussing what a fun time they had playing D&D together at a board game night to which everyone from my year was invited except for me. At a poster session, speaking my native language to another classmate, one of my cohort stopped to make unusual comments that made me feel unwelcome and like I didn’t belong. I noticed I was being laughed at when I wasn’t looking, and pretty much everyone stopped greeting me in the hall. I had no friends in my program by the end of my first year and I was extremely lonely. I would begin to exhibit my first symptoms of depression the following fall. I began to link my self-esteem and self-image to my performance in the lab, thinking that if I performed well in my career I would like myself more. Unfortunately, I had applied to the prestigious NSF-GRFP fellowship grant and been rejected. I then applied to an in-house travel grant, something other students had told me was an easy grant that is freely given to everyone who applies, and was subsequently denied because I didn’t understand the prompt and completely missed the objective. These rejections further discouraged me. I had told myself that I didn’t deserve these awards because I was a bad scientist, and thus a bad person. By that winter, I had actively returned to self-harm as a coping mechanism and had suicidal thoughts on an almost daily basis. I stopped drawing and cancelled my piano lessons, as I could no longer enjoy them and felt guilty that I was taking time out of the lab to do something fun.

My breaking point where I actually decided to leave was after my presentation in a class in my second year. I had worked so hard on my presentation, spent hours on my slides, and expected at least a decent evaluation. I was fully in the throes of my depression at this point. My self-esteem at that point was basically non-existent, and the brutal and mean anonymous peer evaluations after my presentation obliterated whatever I had left. Having to read the rude and unfair criticism from people who just clearly disliked me was awful and hurtful. It felt like everyone in the course was just seeking to put others down. It seemed as though the course itself was not designed in any sort of pedagogy in mind. Five minutes of faculty feedback after my presentation was not even a little sufficient for me to get any learning out of the course. I felt as though I could not redeem myself after performing poorly and continued to spiral into a chronic state of embarrassment and shame. The week after I presented, I had a panic attack just being in the classroom, reliving that traumatic scenario, and stepped out to hyperventilate and cry in the bathroom down the hall. I thought of myself as human trash, deserving only of punishment, pain, and sadness.

I did take the step to see a university therapist to improve my mental health symptoms, especially since at this point it was starting to interfere with my performance in lab. I was struck with crippling fear when it came time to leave the house for me to go to lab; I became distracted and forgetful when setting up reactions, constantly messing up the volumes and getting frustrated; I could no longer do quick mental math calculations with speed and ease; I was sleeping too long and eating almost nothing. My experience with the counseling center was generally positive; my weekly therapist helped me get through that tough second winter. This was also the first time in my life I began treatment with antidepressants. What was unfortunate for me, however, was that I was only allowed 10 sessions with her annually before I was forced to be referred to a therapist “in the community”, which was a subtle way of saying, “we cannot care for you anymore.” It is clear that these 10 sessions are designed with the undergraduate community in mind, where seeing a therapist 10 times in a 12-week semester is appropriate, not with the graduate community who is in residence here for five times that duration annually. I definitely felt as though my condition was stigmatized here; explaining to my labmate that it was difficult for me to come to lab on time because I was depressed, she suggested to “go home and do something nice for yourself like take a hot bath” and questioned, “do you really *need* antidepressants?” After her unsympathetic reaction, I didn’t want anyone to treat me differently, doubt me, or fire me because I was depressed, so I told no one else about it, especially not my advisor. I began reading about mental illnesses in the graduate student population and was surprised to learn that grad students are highly at risk for depression, anxiety, suicidal ideation, and suicide, since no one had ever mentioned mental health problems or told me about student accommodations for mental illness while attending grad school. Attending grad school is actually a significant mental health risk, and no one in the administration seemed to even be aware of this, let alone take steps to prevent their students from developing mental illnesses. I felt completely alone. My depression improved in the summer and I was able to get enough done to prepare a qualifying exam proposal, but by that point I knew this was not a place I imagined myself belonging anymore.

I began to look for jobs immediately after passing my qual. I even got an interview with the crime lab downtown as a DNA analyst, but didn’t end up getting the job. Unfortunately, there were not many jobs for scientists not at my university, as I didn’t want to alert anyone here about my plans to leave.

My lab situation has contributed to my desire to leave. I was disappointed with my lab experience too. In my second year, my advisor failed to submit a recommendation for the NSF-GRFP grant in time, something that obviously hurt my application. I was not put on the path to publication early on. I was given high-risk projects that would not result in publication even if they were successful. I wasted months on hand-me-down projects that failed in other group members hands that were only tangentially related to my thesis work. I didn’t feel as though my work was respected or appreciated. In the last year especially, our lab dynamic has further deteriorated. After losing funding, our lab became unstructured and disorganized quickly. We stopped having lab meetings, let our technician go, and no new students joined after me. I had very little mentoring with regard to my career plans and the publications I would need to achieve my career goals later on. While my classmates are publishing first author papers or have already published at least a middle author paper by their fourth year, I am ashamed to say that I haven’t, which has been difficult for me to accept, and is still something I’m working toward and trying to change before I leave here.

My greatest joy in these dark years was my husband, Jack, who is the light of my life. I met him here in the December of my first year and we married almost exactly three years later. During all my worst moments here, he has been there to share his light with me. When I was having a panic attack, he ran from his lab to hold me and give me water when I was shaking. He deals with my depression so well even when that includes being irritable to him. He boosts my self-esteem and makes me believe that I deserve to be happy. His upcoming defense and subsequent exit was the perfect, extremely reasonable excuse for me to leave. He is the only person who believed in me and enabled me to get even *this* far.

Looking back, I see where there could have been opportunities for mentorship by people I should have looked up to. Oftentimes, when listening to inspiring speakers who have overcome challenges in their careers, they say something along the lines of “I couldn’t have done it without my advisor/mentor who supported me in my tough times.” I honestly cannot think of one person with whom I interacted that I would describe as a real mentor and champion of my success here. It really seemed like no one in a position of power ever took the time to get to know me or fight for me, let alone advise me. I spoke with my committee members on an annual basis, who were understandably busy with their own labs for the entire rest of the year. My first time talking one-on-one with the graduate program director was when I announced my intention to leave. I had no female role models even though it appeared that promoting “women in science” was a major focus of the program when I was applying and was a major factor in me choosing to attend this institution. No one throughout the course of my time here has ever asked me, “How are you?” and really meant it.

Of course, the last thing I want to do is make excuses for myself. I don’t intend to blame all my shortcomings on others. I just wish I had found the support that I needed to be successful here. Unfortunately, that wasn’t the case, and I hope I can find that support somewhere else in the future, even if that is a different graduate school. I believe that I am good enough and smart enough to earn a PhD and do good science, but I am only as good as those who take the effort to put me on a trajectory to success. With zero publications to my name, it’s just not realistic for me to get a competitive postdoc at a top institution like I wanted even if I did finish my degree. “Good enough” was not good enough for me – I didn’t want to “just get through” graduate school and force myself to barely stay afloat in a place where I was not offered the critical support I needed to excel. I imagine if all those inspiring people had their great support network taken away from them, they would probably be in a situation similar to mine. If the strongest person had lived through even one of the negative experiences I did while I was here, it wouldn’t be an unusual reason to leave. I’m honestly surprised that I got this far and proud of myself for surviving. I know my story isn’t the only one since the dropout rate from graduate school is astronomically high, but I hope my sharing my experience can explain the motivation behind why some of us chose not to continue and maybe inspire some lasting meaningful change too. Some have told me that sticking through it and suffering daily to get a PhD is ultimately worth it and an investment in myself. I offer this statement in response: changing my trajectory and terminating my studies is my expression of self-respect which is ultimately the greatest investment in myself I can make.

&#x200B;

TLDR; I'm quitting my PhD program 4 years in because I hate it here and it's the honestly the best thing I can do for myself",92,169,223.3133979857989,GradSchool
Successfully Defended My Thesis Today!,"This is the hardest thing I've ever done. I'm not even close to the brightest or most talented graduate student you'll ever meet, but lord did I work hard for this. I worked really, really, really, hard for this.

I believe in you all, and if I can do it, I guarantee you can too. Just keep working hard, I know it sucks now, but lord almighty when you finally succeed it will be the best feeling you will ever have.",14,169,444.9952729857989,GradSchool
It's part of the research process..,,5,171,789.0542776154284,GradSchool
That research frustration,,9,174,1208.2432822450583,GradSchool
The notes my friend's dissertation supervisor left for her.,,32,170,1462.0343239117249,GradSchool
First real job after grad school,"Just wanted to share. I successfully defended and deposited my dissertation a month ago and tomorrow I start my first real job. I've had internships... but nothing full time. I'm excited, nervous, anxious, and happy at the same time. 11 years of college.... 4 BS, 2 MS and 5 PhD all leading to one National Laboratories job.

If I can do it, you can do it! The path is hard and not easy, many roadblocks and detours but there is an end!

Edit: Feeling the love, thanks! 
",37,173,547.7453424302433,GradSchool
"In the span of a half hour, I got two emails - a followup about a job talk I gave, and an invitation for a phone interview about a faculty position.",,11,168,1738.095608633947,GradSchool
"My PI bought me a 4pack of this amazing barley wine for giving a ""great talk"" at a conference, it wasn't until the fourth bottle that I realized the name might be a subtle undercut to my public speaking ability....",,15,172,2370.9536410413543,GradSchool
Anybody else feel like they aren't capable of publishing a paper?,"I have a masters degree and a PhD from two separate programs and was in grad school for 7 years yet have zero publications to my name and a growing list of rejections. My masters thesis was shitty and after shopping an article version of it around to 3 journals, only having it reviewed by one and getting rejected by all, I gave up on it. In my PhD program I was very hesitant to turn any of my dissertation into article form based on my previous experience, so I got the dissertation done and graduated first before even attempting to publish. 

Today I just got the first of my PhD articles rejected. It's funny because I was really looking forward to the decision this time, hoping it would boost my confidence, but as soon I saw the email in my inbox and before even reading it my mindset completely changed and I fully expected to read that yet again I had submitted garbage. Which is basically what the email said. 

This time though I think I was treated unfairly by the one reviewer that sank its chances and unlike my masters research I think my article had merit. But it's like it doesn't even matter, because treated unfairly or not I'm never going to get published. I really don't understand how it's so easy for others. How professors or even other students can publish 3 or 4 papers a year. 

Just so this post isn't a useless rant, what has been your rejection rate? Not ""revise and re-submit"" but rejection?",73,173,124.30612946728037,GradSchool
"Alright, I can do this","Tomorrow I'm just going to tell my advisor that I'm quitting the program. I was planning on waiting at least a couple more weeks, because we're supposed to be going to a scientific symposium together to present some research 'n shit, but it's just tearing me apart. I've been very withdrawn lately and haven't spent much time in the lab or doing research activities at all, and today my advisor called me and left a message saying that he was worried about me, which finally made me break down and cry. I need to just get this weight off my chest asap.

Tomorrow I'm just going to tell him everything, pay him back for the plane ticket, and maybe skip the symposium altogether. ",13,173,191.92693965246556,GradSchool
...with distinction!,"I’m waiting for my final mark from one unit but it looks like I’ll be graduating with a Masters with Distinction!


I scraped by my undergrad (was literally on the cusp for being able to get into the Masters) and spent so much of this year struggling due to working full time and studying full time. It finally feels like I know what I’m doing and all those sleepless nights and mad panics was worth it!",14,169,332.5657475228359,GradSchool
Life in academia,,12,172,743.377784559873,GradSchool
All I want for Christmas...,,5,168,1747.5594280783914,GradSchool
Just accepted a post-doc offer!!!,"I'm so excited! Visited for an interview last week and it really seems like an amazing fit, both for my research interests and what I want in a lab environment. Seriously couldn't have asked for a better Christmas present - now all I have left to do is graduate (no big lol). ",15,168,662.2725993746878,GradSchool
When you take a day off from writing.,,2,172,821.9453308561692,GradSchool
[Rant] Finally failed out of grad school,"Well, after years of struggling to scrape by, I finally got kicked out of my PhD program. 


Five years ago when I finished undergrad, I had everything important - a great job, good friends, and my health. I even had fully funded offers to top law school programs. But I left it all to attend a PhD program.


Since then my life has been nothing but failures and disappointment. First year was a struggle to keep up with the coursework, and then I had to deal with personal problems on top of it, including the death of a parent. I failed my qualifying exams the first time around. I barely passed on my retake even though I studied my ass off, I even got scolded by the dean of my department for how poorly I did. Since then I was always treated as the idiot of my department. I had trouble even finding an adviser, and when he took me it was more out of pity than anything. I had always been the brightest kid in the class but now I was the class dunce.


Research was even more of a disaster. My math skills weren't good enough to do the research I wanted to do, even though I have a BS in math. I ended up pumping out variations of my adviser's previously published works, I knew it was garbage and would contribute absolutely nothing to our understanding of the world, I just did it to get past my paper requirements. By the time I started my fourth year, I hated the department, the research, and myself. My only friend in the department quit, and after that I lost all motivation. I just stayed in my apartment drinking, hoping to pass out and never wake up. My adviser also went on leave to another university and completely stopped responding to my contact attempts. Instead of looking for a new adviser I just gave up and hid in my room all day. Finally, a month ago I got notified that I hadn't submitted my required fourth year paper. Then today I got an email telling me I had been kicked from the program.


After 4 long, awful years, it's finally over. I ended up with nothing but a gaping hole in my resume (my program doesn't give master's degrees) and will now have to apply to worse jobs than the one I had after undergrad. My brain is a mess, as are my social relationships and my personal finances. 

I'm sorry for the long rant, I just had to get it off my chest and didn't know where else I could do that.",70,168,881.2464303932064,GradSchool
"In grad school, ""spring break"" is really...",spring  now-I-can-finally-catch-up-on-all-that-work.,55,172,945.3494743746878,GradSchool
Every time I finally stumble onto a good idea in grad school...,,2,170,1202.2214651154284,GradSchool
4chan comments on what grad school is like.,,7,166,1583.7900067820951,GradSchool
What no one told me about grad school,"No one told me I’d have an existential crisis everyday, mental breakdowns, and be devoid of all happiness and social life upon starting grad school. And it’s only my first semester. I’ve always been a straight A student and I know how to study but I’ve never had to do this much work and studying in my life (4 hours a day) What do I do?",66,169,339.78331696728037,GradSchool
Happy Tuesday,"Hi fellow grad students,

Just want to uplift you all on this fine day. Good luck on your experiments or  paper or reading or writing everything else. Don't forget that you are here and learned something more than yesterday. ",9,170,441.2666503006137,GradSchool
I stopped caring.,"Well, not entirely, but for the most part yes.  

I'm in the final months of my PhD. My supervisor basically stopped reading reports/manuscripts in detail and giving meaningful feedback more or less one year in. We meet twice per month, but the feedback is just general advice since this point. I understand this is expected, since after some point the student will be the one understanding their work in depth, but it makes me question if he actually cares.  

I've been back and forth wondering whether I'm doing good work, but my confidence has taken a hit after one of my manuscripts got rejected a few times. Granted, some of these rejections were journals with higher impact than people in my cohort usually submit to, but still.   

After Christmas break I entered a bit of an emotionless mental state where I just want to finish writing (basically bundling all manuscripts together) and deliver, doing the minimum to pass the defense. I just feel like moving on and getting a job.   

I don't put my PhD on a pedestal. Through my undergraduate years, my master's and at the beginning of the PhD I still had the enthusiasm of pursuing some level of greatness, but at this point I basically lost all motivation to make something of quality.  

Just posting this to get some opinions on this mindset I ended up in. The upside is that I'm minimizing my stress in these final months, but at the same time I probably won't have a thesis I will be proud of, in the future.

Edit: grammar",44,169,274.12161557839147,GradSchool
I am finally a PhD candidate!,I just wanted to share some good news with you guys! I passed my final qualifying exam today! It will feel so good to be in the lab without stress tomorrow.,23,169,1089.9280739117248,GradSchool
Submitted my thesis today!,"Completely self serving post I know, I'm just super excited to have the fracking thing out of my life (at least until the viva and corrections and what not...) and there isn't anyone in my immediate vicinity who appreciates how much of a relief this is the way you guys do.

Hope everyone else is having a decent day!",10,167,1114.2858632635766,GradSchool
"Every. Damn. Day. Thanks, Academic Coach Taylor.",,11,165,1973.8769975228358,GradSchool
PhD Viva in 9 hours. Can't sleep. Panic.,"After 4 years I'm having my PhD viva in 9 hours and I am massively panicking for the last 2 weeks. 


Yes I have printed my thesis and read it. I've made a 20 minute presentation. But I'm not the brightest tool in the shed and I'm panicking about questions, examiners thoughts and feedback. Having an awful imposters syndrome (I really don't feel like I deserve a PhD).


Really not looking forward to it. Hope I can stop crying by the time my viva starts.

EDIT: ya girl's a doctor. Not gonna lie. It's a mildly unpleasant experience. But at some point... I almost forgot it's an exam. Just a long discussion.

EDIT 2: thanks for some of the feedback and comments during my sleepless night before.",51,163,33.81431233765075,GradSchool
Does applying for post-grad jobs make anyone else feel like a total inexperienced idiot?,"I am trying to apply for post-grad jobs in museums, archaeology and historic preservation as I am going to be graduating in December but every single application has something new that I have never seen before. One wants me to submit an employee appraisal or my annual review statement which I've never had. One wants me to list starting and ending salaries for all jobs but my work experience has been volunteer with stipend, internship with stipend, work study, and graduate assistant work, with my GA being the only actually salaried position. Do I just say I was a full-time student to explain why I never had a salaried position? I also don't know how many years my resume should go back. I know I should have a master resume that lists everything, but I don't know how much of my undergrad volunteering, and extracurricular I should really list, I've mostly just let them drop off at this point because when I get done listing jobs and internships my resume is barely under two pages. I feel like I need help navigating all this but as each application is different I don't know what questions to even ask, to make maters worse I don't even know where to ask for help on my campus. As I'm a masters student (versus PhD students, which get lots of job application support), the grad school has just told me to go to the career center but they have a confusing website for requesting an appointment.",33,170,76.26237946728037,GradSchool
"Still StrugglingGrad, but it's getting better","Hi r/gradschool

I wanted to share some inner reflection I've had in this past year. Given my contribution to this sub has always been dark and depressing, I felt like it would be good to share some positive perspective I've come into recently. 

Earlier this year I completed my qualifying exams and became ABD. I am now finishing up my IRB paperwork to begin collecting data in January, I've applied to 3 funding sources (got the small one, waiting on the big ones), and I wrote parts of my dissertation. I have a new feeling now: I'm actually going to finish this. I feel like such a weight has been lifted, it's different now. Many ""older"" grads had told me getting to this point would feel better, but I kept hearing that at every stage (""you will feel better after courses are done"") but I never did, so I didn't believe I would at the ABD stage either. But I actually do. 

After some reflection I realize some of the reasons why I feel better. I wanted to share that with this sub, even if it's mostly for myself. I feel like I owe the universe some positivity. Maybe StrugglingGrad2.0 is watching and needs it. Maybe I just need it. 

5 things that made me feel like I wasn't drowning any more:

 1. I finally told my PI what was going on. I told her I was crumbling under everything. I told her I wanted to quit. I told her other grad students didn't take me seriously now that I had a child. I told her about racist and sexist microagressions I was dealing with. And she was incredibly receptive. Our working relationship has grown because I finally told her how miserable I was. It wasn't healthy. I was losing myself. I know she could recognize it, but I needed to vocalize it. Now that it's out there, she has been a huge support system for me. I am really fortunate to have such a PI. 

 2. I put my toddler in full time daycare. I had posted here before about my struggles as a mother and woman of color in grad school. I was overwhelmed by caring for my child and holding down my grad school responsibilities. I lost so much time and mental health over it. Someone here suggested I make the plunge and put my toddler in daycare. And I did. And it was hard and it was so so expensive. At first we put it on a credit card, and later I found ways to get funding from my university. But the ability to finally work was priceless. I now work M-F 8-4 (ish). And I work my ass off in that time frame. Then I go home and I just don't work. And sure, I never finish all the work I set out to do in a day, and I'm always behind on something. But everything changed when I started working again and putting boundaries on my work. I work in my office, I relax with my family. Not saying I never work weekends or evenings, but I have pulled back on the guilt I feel when I don't. 

 3. I started playing more video games. I posted here about how I felt like I didn't have a hobby because my life was consumed by grad school (and motherhood). I desperately wanted to be ""normal"" and have a hobby. I felt like I just didn't. It took some time (and #1 and #2) but I remember something: I already have a hobby. I was so lost to myself I forgot that I was once a gamer. I know it sounds silly but I love video games. I finally just carved out space to myself to game. I also found a close friend in grad school who (surprise surprise) felt how I was/am. The two of us try and meet once a week to game a couple hours together before bed. It's made a huge difference in my mental state. I feel genuinely happier knowing that if I can just work my ass off all day,  come home, relax, and after my toddler goes to bed, I can play some BioShock or something.

 4. I reached out and networked. I started attending better fitting conferences with others doing similar research, I presented my work, and I played the networking game. I think networking is a strong suit for me, and I hadn't really reflected on that before. I put myself out there in my field, I stood strong by my work, I put in my +3 to charisma blazer, and I rocked these conferences. It gave me so much self confidence in a way I didn't expect. The more I talked to others in all stages (grads, assistant profs, tentured, distinguished) the more I realized that, hey wait, maybe I can do this after all?

 5. I started looking at jobs outside of academia. And like for real looking at them. I became convinced that I needed out, so I needed to see what was out there. I went to the career center on campus, I reached out to contacts of others who left academia, I started attending workshops for relevant skills, and I even updated my LinkedIn page. The biggest, and most unexpected, outcome of this was that it boosted my academic-self-confidence. I learned a valuable lesson: there really are jobs out there for me. For PhD me. For MA me. They want the skills I have now. I can learn the other skills. I can do these jobs. And the more and more I realized that the more I realized: it's okay if I fail in the academic market. And hell, I probably will fail. But that's okay. I know now that I have the freedom to give it a try. So I'm giving it my best shot. 

Thank you for reading. This was very therapeutic for me. I appreciate those who reached out to me when I was lurking here during my darkest times. I haven't found the solution to grad school yet, but I'm seeing the light at the end of this god dam tunnel. I know now that in about a year, y'all gunna call me ""Doctor."" :)

Edit: spacing",18,167,289.2873794672804,GradSchool
"Those who quit PHD with a Terminal masters late （5+), how are you doing?","Looking for assurance, I guess. ",32,164,713.1469628006138,GradSchool
"Don't worry College Prof, that's what grad students are for.",,7,168,770.7885368746878,GradSchool
I passed my thesis defense!!!,I'm super excited right now. Just some small changes and I'm finally done with this thesis! ,14,168,911.1317313191322,GradSchool
Excited to pursue my degree in [insert program here]!,,10,168,1380.1754928932062,GradSchool
Every time...,,12,165,401.11941650431737,GradSchool
"My roommate, a fellow grad student sent me this. Desperate times.",,18,167,925.0151572450582,GradSchool
Half Of All PhD Students Suffer From Psychological Distress,,50,167,929.284347059873,GradSchool
When I get a lukewarm compliment from my supervisor about my study proposal.,,4,167,999.2416040043173,GradSchool
Graduated and stopped walking on eggshells,"I defended a few weeks back and have started working at a place where people are nice and professional. This has been so much of a change that I really don't know what to say. 

I bought a new car over the weekend, and drove a long way back so was a bit late today morning. Came in, told me boss, and do you know what he said, ""Cool! Show me the pictures!"" We then geeked out together on the features for the next fifteen minutes, after which he gave me a recommendation for a detailing shop where I could get paint protection and tinting done.

I don't know, I am grown ass tall guy, but just this interaction made me so overwhelmed with happiness that I actually cried in the restroom. Because if this was my grad school, I would have already been yelled at and been threatened to be fired for the temerity of coming in late and actually taking the weekend off to buy a new car. This is literally what my PhD advisor once told me, ""My advisor gave me a hard time and it made me the scientist I am today. If you can't take it, just leave - I have multiple students from the best universities in the world waiting to take your place.""

This was a long rant, but I don't know, it felt good to be human again.",26,166,470.26559705987296,GradSchool
"[UPDATE] Cried during lab meeting yesterday, am worried I'm going to cry in my dissertation defense on Tuesday as well","[Link to Original Post](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/8k4sok/cried_during_lab_meeting_yesterday_am_worried_im/)

**TL;DR:** I am finishing up my program after 6 years, gave a practice dissertation defense hearing talk in my lab meeting and burst into tears out of frustration and anxiety. All my labmates and my PI were supportive but I was worried the same thing would happen in my actual hearing (which was yesterday).


**UPDATE**: First of all, thank you SO MUCH to everyone who read my initial post and responded. Everyone was so kind, thoughtful, and concerned, and that by itself honestly made me feel a lot better.

I had the defense yesterday and it went really well! And I did not cry! Although, one thing a lot of people told me that struck with me was: Crying is not necessarily a bad thing. I care about this project, I have emotional investment in it, and my committee knows that. It's almost an anticipated reaction when something that has made up such a huge part of your life for so long is coming to a close. And, most importantly: **Crying does not mean you are weak, nor does it mean you are a bad researcher who does not know your stuff.** Implicit in my original post was the idea that it was a behavior that had to be stopped. That is not the case. We are all human, we are not dissertation-writing robots, we care about our research and get attached to it, and **crying is a natural human reaction to stress**. Everyone in grad school knows how stressful it is, how much we all work, and how none of us take enough time for our mental health. So anyway, trying to get myself out of that mindset, that crying = bad and crying = weak, was the first thing that I did.

I have compiled here some of the advice from the original thread, as well as some of my own tips (apologies for not giving credit):

**Psychological Tips:** 
**REMEMBER AND TELL YOURSELF THAT**

* Those around WANT you to succeed.

* At least the way my program works, they would not have let me schedule the defense if they didn't believe in me and thought I was ready. (though I know that's not necessarily the case for everyone)

* Crying is a natural human reaction to stress, is not a sign of weakness and does not detract from your research's value, nor the seriousness with which your colleagues should treat you

* Treat your defense like a celebration (this was huge for me)

* Most of the work is already done.

* Remember that you're the expert in what you've done.

* Your committee is not there to grill you. Whether it's criticism or advice, their objective is to try to help you make the project better.

* If you can, distance yourself from the data. You are reporting the findings. The data are what they are, and you can't change that, and does not reflect your knowledge/intelligence.

**Things you can do**

* Explain why you're crying, or give people a heads' up that it might happen. Being open about the possibility can make it easier to push through if actually does happen. Something u/Javlington suggested you can say: ""I've been very emotionally invested in my work for the past 6 years, and being able to summarize and discuss it with people who I respect and who spent valuable time on reading my work is a huge thing to me. I can be a bit emotional, so don't take it the wrong way if I get overwhelmed at some point!""""

* Practice practice practice. And don't just practice giving the talk, practice answering questions (try to have a colleague or someone who knows the project well think of some questions).

* Try to exercise the night before or the morning of

* Get lots of sleep

* Drink lots of water

* Vent to someone, or write down your anxieties

* Get all the tears out so you're literally tired of crying

* Get a hug from someone (a pet! a friend!)

* Plant friends or people you know in the audience that you can look at during the talk

* Meditate (I listened to some sleep/ASMR podcasts)

* Breathing or relaxation exercises - I find [this gif](https://qz.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/tumblr_o38gmjllp01sotxcgo1_500.gif) incredibly useful

**Distraction in the moment if you feel tears coming on**

* look up at lights in the room

* blink a lot

* put your tongue on the roof of your mouth

* yawn

* hit a hair band/rubber band on your wrist

* take a sip of water

* you can ask to step outside and take a break. If you do this, what helps me is to splash cold water on my face (especially around my eyes)

* think of something banal (my dad had recently asked me what the name of my junior high principal was and that was a good weird thing to focus on lol)


**Medication** *(for me, medication also has a psychological component; I know that the medication I take for anxiety doesn't start working for about 90 minutes, but I always feel better immediately after I take it)*

* Propranolol

* Benzodiazepines

* L-Theanine

* Other antianxiety/panic attack medication",10,165,510.12660400431736,GradSchool
Graduating in May with my M.A. in Political Science! All my books from my core classes that I have either read in entirety or have used throughout the program. What a journey!,,28,166,564.2210947450582,GradSchool
Bye bye asterisk!,"I graduated today! It's been a long journey, but I've finally earned my Masters! I don't post here very often, but I lurk quite a bit and the advice and support on this sub was a significant factor in making it to this point.

Thanks /r/GradSchool!",9,165,795.2326456709841,GradSchool
MRW I finish my first year of working full time and full time MA,,9,167,889.3963030783915,GradSchool
Today I successfully defended my Master's!,"After A LOT of struggles, most notably failing my initial thesis proposal, today I can proudly say I have a Master's Degree in Psychology. I found this subreddit helpful for motivation throughout my program, and I hope that my final outcome can provide some inspiration to others that even if your thesis is garbage now, you will eventually pass! (My next step is to GTFO of academia and travel for several months)",11,162,2183.1569512265396,GradSchool
My PhD qualifying exam is in 3 days!!!,"Wish me luck!

A few years ago I moved my whole life across the country, away from family & friends& good bagels/pizza/sushi for my PhD and I am finally close enough to see the light at the end of the tunnel!!

I’ve been preparing for this exam for an entire year, over two years if you count from the very first prep meeting I ever attended [+ every waking moment of my degree.]

I’m nervous but also excited as hell to get this stage of my training over with!

Thank you in advance for any support. I’m hyped rn",29,166,64.38338641172481,GradSchool
You know how children of abusive parents often become abusive themselves?,"Oh hi there, academia.

*edited to add that the idea that children of abusive parents are more likely become abusive themselves is false, thank you to the redditors who commented with that information",36,163,103.81483317098407,GradSchool
a raging saturday night in grad school,,12,164,1457.1471248376506,GradSchool
I just have to let this out somewhere - (finally) accepted publication!,"Anyone on my social media either wouldn't care or already has first author pubs and would think I'm lame for posting this.. I'm so happy! My first, first author publication was accepted today after a grueling review process. It's in Scientific Reports, which I'm pretty stoked about. I know it's impact factor isn't very impressive, but it's nature publishing group which is great!

&#x200B;

Anything great happen to you guys this week?",35,163,335.0247290043174,GradSchool
I passed my defense!! I'm a doctor now!!,I'm so excited I could pass out. ,31,161,1251.087043819132,GradSchool
Last chapter of my thesis,,9,162,1630.29044659691,GradSchool
Received an e-mail from one of my students today...happens around this time every semester.,,10,158,1644.9734905783914,GradSchool
Grad school confessions,"My dissertation title is so long, I kept forgetting it so I wrote it on a  Post-It note and stuck it to my desk.

What are you grad school confessions?",321,160,1701.1699257635767,GradSchool
Girlfriend called me on my shit. I hate myself.,"I am 7 years into a doctoral program in engineering and public policy at carnegie mellon university.  I hate myself.  I switched advisors 3 years ago when my first one fired me because my research focus had changed and because I was dealing with mental health issues that made me unable to make sufficient progress on my thesis.  My advisor is great now, but I still have such crippling anxiety that I cronically procrastinate.  I am scaraed to death to talk to my advisor.  I hide from him.  Because I'm all but dissertation, I hide in my house for fear of judgement or someone telling me I'm full of shit.  I haven't touched my thesis in 2 months.  My girlfriend has had it with me and calls me a fraud and a cheat.

&#x200B;

I worked my ass off to get into Carnegie Mellon University. I came in with a chemical engineering degree from the University of Tennessee. I loved my undergraduate professors and my classes. 7 years at Carnegie Mellon later, I am burned out, have crippling anxiety, hate myself, have no idea what I'm doing, and I don't feel like I've learned much. My professors were all very lazy and checked out in class. Most just recited some lecture slides riddled with errors and made us grade our own homework. I learned so little I failed my PhD qualifying exam and had to retake it after studying with a mentor for a year to learn all the stuff I was supposed to learn in my coursework. I had an advisor who could care less about me and never checked in on me until he fired me. My fiance broke up with me afterwards.  I felt like killing myself and had to go into psychiatric treatment.  The girl I am seeing now threatens to break up with me every month and calls me a lazy bumb.",49,162,133.73970585616928,GradSchool
"When you have to write a paper, draw and edit the figures and reply to reviewers yourself",,5,161,174.29564335616925,GradSchool
messed up situation in my last year of PhD..,"Today I brought data and he kept wanting me to show him raw data. He thinks i'm ""manufacturing data"" or fabricating data just to graduate. I had to explain to him about every single step of the way. This fucking idiot doesn't believe in my data just because I brought him data that he didn't expect. What it turns out is that he has no experience of doing this and that's why he kept changing his minds and doubting my results, because he does not know. He has this thing about his self-esteem that he doesn't want his students to know more about him. wtf..

What really pisses me off is that there's a prof from different department who is working on a very similar project who also wants to duplicate my study, so he started attending our weekly meeting and writing down all protocols that I did.  Basically he's taking all my ideas to do his study yet he didn't want to tell me to add two cents onto my experiment.

I'm really getting sick of this because this is the very reason I don't want to be in academia.

&#x200B;

Just to to vent out somewhere.",22,161,328.60457854135444,GradSchool
Trying to escape the radar [OC],,5,161,505.7016271524656,GradSchool
Friends and beer always make it better ! [OC],,9,160,519.7735484487619,GradSchool
I did it!!! I'm official a Master of Biology!,"I defended my Master's thesis today and passed with flying colors!!! My committee was really positive and was really happy with both my presentation and my thesis. One of my committee members actually said he really enjoyed reading my thesis and that the writing is much, much better than that done by the average student. My other committee member also felt that there was a huge positive in the negative results I had for part of my project and literally just wants me to change a single word in my thesis. And here I thought I would just barely pass. 

It's finally done. This is surreal.",25,162,1537.745481319132,GradSchool
Jerks in academia,"I’m convinced that some PIs are just jerks or insane. Maybe that’s how they got to their positions, who knows.. have you ever been on the receiving end of mean spirited behavior from PIs or people senior to you? I feel like there’s no way to win. If you give in, then you’re being bullied around. If you stand up for yourself, they have more power and can make your life a living hell. How do you deal with that?",74,162,380.3975415043174,GradSchool
"When I was young, I used to get really excited about being sick.","You know, cause I might get to miss school. Now I am paralyzed by the fear of getting a cold.",22,163,385.84778455987293,GradSchool
Just cried in front of everyone.... but it's okay :),"So I'm doing a STEM PhD at a US institution, but as part of my program, I was able to go abroad to a collaborating institution, where I have carried out the fieldwork for my dissertation for the past two years.  


Next week I head back up to my graduate institution as my fieldwork is done and all I have left to do is write and graduate. This morning my collaborating group hosted a tiny farewell party for me. They asked me to say a few words, and as I was thanking everyone for their support and mentorship, I got a little choked up.  


The past two years here have been full of ups and downs. I had a rocky start with my collaborators. The place where I have been working is not a university, it's in another country, and it has loads of international folks as staff - suffice to say things operate *completely* differently here than at my graduate institution, or at any academic institution in the US for that matter. Integrating myself here to the point of being able to do successful research had a steep learning curve. Not to mention I had left behind my graduate institution and all the support that it offers (advisors, fellow students/cohorts, resources for graduate students, etc.). There was even a time where I had hit a ""rock bottom"" - I was struggling to get out of bed and in to work, I'd sworn off the idea of ever working in STEM, and I was playing around with the possibility of withdrawing.   


And yet, even as all of that was going on, I managed to have the biggest experience of my life. I learned to scuba dive on weekends at a beach near my fieldwork site. I had the opportunity to work in an international team of people that, while frustrating at times, introduced me to a range of different perspectives and ways of doing things. I got to deeply know a country and its culture from driving its backroads, digging in its dirt, and living its day-to-day alongside the locals. I had a taste of how applied sciences work outside of academia and was able to cultivate many of the additional skills necessary to succeed in that environment. I made lifelong friends and I met the person I want to spend my life with.   


I got choked up today because I couldn't find the right words to express the level of gratitude I have towards this place for guiding me through what was one of the most transformative experiences of my life. I'm a completely different person today because of it, and I wouldn't have been able to experience any of that growth if I had stayed at my graduate institution. And in the end I don't feel all that bad about showing a little honest emotion around that.   


In short, it's been a wild (and, at times, messy) ride - over the past two years I went from being bright-eyed and bushy-tailed to being completely and utterly jaded and disillusioned, all before finally arriving where I am now: confident in myself and my abilities, excited about where I'm headed next, and with a wide variety of science (and life!) experiences to draw upon as I move forward. I don't know if I would have taken a post like this to heart during my own personal rock bottom, but I hope that this can perhaps serve as an example that it is possible to emerge on the other side, and you might find that you're better off for it in many ways. ",10,156,396.09707854135445,GradSchool
Fair enough! Good parents make good advisors.,,13,162,417.30521511542855,GradSchool
We all know who reviewer ２ is,,23,159,523.4442081709841,GradSchool
Passing your defense: expectations vs. reality,,17,159,672.3752382635768,GradSchool
This author was feeling a little saucy,,4,159,748.1103655783916,GradSchool
Failing upwards,"There was a long holiday weekend this past week and I was able to get back to my hometown area to meet up with some close friends I haven't seen in about a year (since I moved out to start my PhD). We got to talking and I mentioned that I'm just super anxious and kind of depressed, going to counseling on the reg, and potentially looking at leaving the program.

My friends (I should mention that these friends in particular never did the whole grad school thing at all) were kind of shocked that my ""existential figuring my life out in my 20s"" thing was me going to get a PhD and not being sure if it's something I wanted. It doesn't negate my emotions at all, and I know that whatever happens that my friends and family will support and love me, but I always think about what others will think about me with every single choice in my life.

Does anyone else feel that on some level they've just kind of been ""failing up"" as it were? Meaning that there's a lot of self-doubt, emotional distress, and generally a complete lack of a plan, but they keep just... for lack of a better word, accomplishing major life things? With a lot of the ""achievements"" in my life it mostly just feels like I'm crossing things off of some list that doesn't exist.",52,159,40.2577266895026,GradSchool
Starting PhD in Fall... and I'm fucking scared,"I got admitted to a top school in my field and I have serious doubts about my competency.

&#x200B;

I will be working in an area that I don't have a firm grasp of yet but one that I am keen on exploring so I am doing some catch up during this summer. The main thing I am scared of is not performing well and disappointing my PI. I don't know what they're like in person. My PI wants me to read up on and learn some things but I already feel like a failure and that I'm not learning fast enough (I KNOW I am not because I am spending way too much time lurking on Reddit for my own good). I know that if you're at a competitive school, the expectations are very high. I feel like I'm not cut out for this and that my PI should have chosen another student over me. I'm just so fucking scared that my PI already regrets his choice and that I'm going to do shit work for the next few years. Am I overthinking this? Has anyone else here been through a similar phase?

&#x200B;

On top of that I feel burned out this summer. My current advisor frequently tells me that I've done an excellent job for the past year but I don't know how much of that is genuine. But I will be moving on and attending a different school... so different expectations for different PIs. I have just finished my current degree, and I just want a few days, just a few days..., to relax and travel around a bit - but no time for that since I have other commitments to tend to as well. I'm not sleeping well, and I'm anxious day in and day out. I feel like I'm off to a bad start already.

&#x200B;

Any advice anyone can give?",36,157,108.14412715246557,GradSchool
"While you are still a student, create a ResearchGate account","In my field, we frequently need to take a look at published academic papers. I am the only person in my office with a ResearchGate account, which I easily created when I was a graduate student. It has proven to be quite useful, as some of my coworkers have been denied accounts (for whatever ResearchGate reason), and they were excited to hear that I had an account. I am often asked to try to find papers from other researchers for their review. When I was a new employee, this made me feel useful to the company in a small way, which is satisfying.

&#x200B;

Also, ResearchGate is an awesome website to host any research you have published or been a part of. Papers, Conference Papers, Posters, etc. They can all be hosted on this website and ""link"" to your other researchers. It will also alert you if your work has been cited by another researcher, which is a great feature.

&#x200B;

edit- for further clarification, you need to have a school account to gain access. I'm disappointed by the level of negative comments for just trying to post something helpful to a sub that is sorely lacking in the ""helpful"" graduate school posts.",43,159,119.34320122653963,GradSchool
What are some ways you guys deal with lack of motovation due to mental health stuff as it relates to your grad school responsibilities?,"Before anyone gives the usual suggestions, I currently see a therapist, try to make time for friends, make it to work out when I can (which has only been like once a week), and try to take care of myself, but the coursework starts to snowball when I take the time for myself that I need right now.

I went through a bad breakup with a colleague in my studio a couple months ago and I see her every day, which has been tough to get over. Finally trying to create intentional space for a while on weekends and such, but still not over the hump.

I've found myself stressed the past few Sundays when I look at my to do list and how little of it I accomplished compared to my previous levels of productivity. I've been trying to manage personal finances a bit more intentionally lately too, but it just seems there's not enough time in the day.

Honestly, I do spend a lot of time watching Netflix or whatever, but sometimes it's the only way I can escape the anxiety. There's occasional progress, and I know I'll get there, but man life sucks right now.

Any tips on how you personally dealt better with the balance during grad school? This one's putting me through the wringer.",26,157,218.98188178209517,GradSchool
I’m Done!,"Five years later, I have finally finished my PhD in History. It almost feels surreal. Like, I can’t believe it’s done. Everyone is congratulating me, but I still don’t feel worthy of the praise. I’m still doubting myself. 

Since I have a post doc position, I don’t know how to celebrate and be proud of myself.  Any advice or words of encouragement? 

PS! I am world of knowledge when it comes to getting through this stage in your life. I just wish I could appreciate it the way others do!",23,161,394.75087483765077,GradSchool
I am BURNT OUT.,"I am in a fine arts masters program. I moved 800 miles away and I have no nearby family and my boyfriend could not move with me. 

I'm in my third semester, so I've been at this for over a year now. It hasn't been easy, but it's been tolerable and I've been able to just absorb myself in the work. However I'm now at thesis creation which I have been working on since June. For an MFA, it's not just a 40 page research paper, but I literally have to go out and make the work that I will then write about in my thesis paper. Due to my medium, this requires me to travel, to have long fieldwork days, to bring all the work back to my mentors only to tell me that I'm not doing enough or they don't get it.

I've been writing, journaling, producing work, attempting to finish the assignments for my other classes, and meeting with mentors. Everyone pulls me in different projects with the work that I literally had a nervous breakdown last weekend. I have four jobs on campus, none of which I can quit because I need the money to pay my rent and to have the ability to make my thesis. Traveling and the supplies I need to make my art are putting me into credit card debt.

I'm trying to have self-care by keeping my house clean, taking care of myself, watching crap TV in my downtime, and I just contacted a personal trainer for the gym. I feel like I have exhausted my thesis committee, my boyfriend, and cohort on how relentless the work feels and how tired I feel. But everyone tells me its just part of the process and that it's temporary, and that I'm doing everything I can. I have a history of panic attacks and I feel like I'm becoming more susceptible. I had a therapist over the summer but he was not a good fit so I stopped going. The therapists at the university just want to hand you a prescription and I am not interested in getting back onto antidepressants.

**The suspended state of stress and uncertainty for months on end feels extremely unhealthy.** 

Yet another rant here. I'm just lost.",33,157,2.979057708021115,GradSchool
ACCEPTED TODAY! A week before classes start..,"I received my acceptance to the Health and Kinesiology, Master of Science program today!
(San Antonio, TX)

I’m very excited but concerned how late the acceptance was sent out. I emailed my advisor to see if there were any graduate/research assistantships available for Fall 2019, because I still do not have funding for the program.

If anyone has any advice on how to approach faculty about funding or other things to consider starting a Master’s program, I would love all of the extra advice.

I’m a long time lurker of this sub and truly thrilled to finally be a part of a group pursuing more research 😊",18,156,61.08462483765075,GradSchool
Getting fat in school,"I've been pursuing a master's full time since May while working full time, and I've gained more pounds than credits. I'm eating like shit and I legitimately don't know when to make time to go to the gym, especially since I'm trying to plan a wedding and be a good fiance.

Anyone have any suggestions on how to be less fat (other than eat less/move more)?

Edit: wow, so many great answers and so much support! Thank you!

I've been doing intermittent fasting for a few months and I pretty much exclusively drink water, green tea, and whiskey. I'm not drinking nearly enough water. Getting back into meal prep has been on the list for a while and it sounds like I need to make that change now. As for exercise, we recently set up a treadmill and put my Xbox and an old TV in front of it so I can do work while relaxing. Walking at a comfortable pace is the best I can do while still being able to play it read, but the treadmill stays in max incline and I sometimes throw on a light pack while I walk as well.

Also, to be fair, I was fat before I started. For those who are curious about numbers, I'm 5'6"", male, late 20s. I started in May at 210 and am now 248.",95,158,285.4098794672804,GradSchool
[update]Grad school just hit the fan in 4 hours. Dean getting involved in ADA dispute.,"original thread-[https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/9gya45/grad\_school\_just\_hit\_the\_fan\_in\_4\_hours\_dean/](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/9gya45/grad_school_just_hit_the_fan_in_4_hours_dean/)

&#x200B;

The chair contacted me and wanted to meet with me Thursday to talk about solutions so I would not have to deal with this faculty anymore.

I woke up Thursday morning with a horrible fever. I contacted strep throat apparently. I rarely get sick and when I do, it's usually really bad. I honestly haven't been this sick since high school and I was already over 100F when I went in.

&#x200B;

We meet. He gets me with a different advisor and he switches my course sections. Apparently my current instructor is behind this instructor by two  weeks, and the new instructor is notoriously thorough in her grading. I still take the deal, because it's honestly better to leave a toxic situation quickly than stay in it for years and years and get nothing out of it.

&#x200B;

I apologize to him if I sounded unhinged from stress, not feeling well, and never being in this situation. . He said it was perfectly understandable and my current instructor ""had some rough edges."" Apparently I wasn't the one who has had to deal with her.

&#x200B;

Absolutely worth it. Thanks for supporting me, I was worried I'd have to leave the program had the chair not sided with me. I'm still amazed that she is the only graduate advisor for masters students in Industrial Engineering unless a situation like this occurs.

&#x200B;",11,160,387.2322058561693,GradSchool
PSA: Turns out I'm good at the thing grad school made me think I'm awful at.,"I'm in a masters program in a technical field and I really struggled my first year. I started an internship on Monday and in reality, I'm an expert in the field compared to 95&#37; of people, I have learned a lot and when I'm not stressed out about it (work is less stressful than school?) I enjoy this work a lot. ",15,158,489.91154613394707,GradSchool
My first paper was accepted!!,"Ok so it's only a conference proceedings paper. But still. If it's good enough for Google Scholar, it's good enough for me. 

I'm not a total failure!

Edit: I take it back. Code not working. Am actually total failure.",15,158,1236.9965808561692,GradSchool
Shit Graduate Students Say,,42,157,1287.4690461339471,GradSchool
A few friends have been posting about graduation on facebook,,15,159,1616.0111526154285,GradSchool
Don't we wish we could do this? (x-posted from /r/EverythingScience),,6,161,1868.3931086339471,GradSchool
"Have you watched a spouse go through a PhD program and thought, sadistically, ""Yeah, I should do that, too?""","My spouse finished a PhD program, and I was there with her for most of it. She's amazing and killed it, but I did see her go through a lot to come out the other side. I am beginning to think about a change of career pace, myself, in the next few years. I'm just curious if anyone has been married to a PhD and gone back to get theirs, and how that experience was for you?  
  
EDIT: Of course, I should have used ""masochistically,"" not, ""sadistically."" While it was an adventure for both of us in the process, I wasn't intending to ask if I should give my spouse any ""payback"" for it! Ha! Thank you all for your responses and feedback!",26,157,32.01652298579889,GradSchool
"I am supposed to complete my Masters in August, but I was just diagnosed with breast cancer at 26.","It's a 12-month program. Spring and summer are an 8-month capstone group project. This summer I was supposed to take one more elective and complete my capstone project. I'm enrolled in 57 units of work. I'm supposed to graduate early August. 

I am technically meeting with my doctors in the next week and will learn more about my next steps. I'm probably getting ahead of myself, but I'm concerned about whether I will be able to finish my degree on time or if I will have to try to defer (and how I will get a job in the meantime if I do defer). I will talk to my advisors in the next week as I know more about my situation and options, but I was wondering if anyone here has fought cancer through grad school and if you have any advise for how I can proceed. My concern is that my program is very condensed, intense, and fast-paced by design, so if I take a significant amount of time off for treatment I may miss too much and no matter how supportive my advisors are, time can't really slow down for me.

Anything at all that will help me make an informed decision about whether I want to wrap up my year or complete it later would be fantastic. I find all sorts of advise about work and jobs with cancer, but not as much for grad school.",17,156,153.80476372653962,GradSchool
I feel like the PhD in English is Silly.,"Hear me out: Year 2 PhD student in English here.

You know how we often degrade folks online for over-zealous defenses of Star Wars by saying “Lay off, it’s a movie about space wizards and glow sticks”? Not that we don’t love Star Wars, but in reality it just isn’t worth creating bad feelings over toward one another. 

When I get lengthy email responses to papers I’ve written, I get the same feeling expressed above ^.

I’m struggling financially, I have little to no time in the semester to do the ridiculous lit reviews necessary to appease these professors on final papers, I’m not guaranteed anything remotely close to a job, and we are just writing arbitrary opinions on books—!  So I find it silly to read these comments about my papers lacking source interaction when I can’t bring myself to take this thing seriously at all.

It’s just a vacation away from my former life for me. I just want to teach community college (let me have my composition & maybe one lit class to have fun with students) and be left alone for crying out loud.

TL;DR

PhD in English is a collection of people creating arbitrary opinions about books that often has little to nothing to do with the author/reader relationship on display by regular readers. Therefore, it’s hard for me to take this seriously (even after 6 years of study).",137,156,157.41195122653963,GradSchool
Fear of failure... and procrastination,"Anybody else find themselves dogged by these two?

I'm trying to work on the last half chapter of this stupid PhD thesis but panicking about how little time I have to finish the whole thing off, and how bad it might be as a consequence. If I could turn all that into a solid work drive it'd be worth it, but it makes things worse and I'm always behind schedule.

Sorry for the confessional post, I'd love to hear other people's experiences (one of my problems is my PhD is in English so it gets pretty isolated). I'm... really keen on getting a doctorate but it's pretty damn awful at times.",32,158,330.30055076357667,GradSchool
My heart rate trend during midterms,,23,157,718.2580160413545,GradSchool
(First Post!) Dissertation printed and ready for committee review!,,25,160,2384.335145670984,GradSchool
First day of school. Grade 17.,,14,157,421.08215955987293,GradSchool
Didn't think I would get into a single grad school based on my GPA - got into 6 programs at great schools! Don't give up hope.,"Today I finished my last ever exam of undergrad at McGill University (I'm an American) and thought I would share a bit of hopeful information for those thinking about applying to grad schools. 

I never thought that I would get into grad schools based on my poor GPA of a 3.26 due to mistakes in my first year, though I have a lot of relevant experience pertaining to my broader interest in international relations and more specific interests in human rights policy and institutions. Since applying to grad schools I've been able to considerably raise my GPA as I really buckled down this year academically, but these changes were not considered obviously as they came post-applications.

I applied to the Peace Corps, too, as a backup as it's something I've wanted to do since childhood and figured now would be the best time to take 27 months of my life off from school/my future career. I was offered a position in Rwanda which I ended up turning down after beginning to receive grad school acceptances.

I ended up getting accepted to programs at Queen's University Belfast, University of Glasgow, Columbia University (a huge shock after being waitlisted for nearly two months), American University, George Washington University, and University of Edinburgh. I still have no idea how I got into at least half of these programs, but will be heading off to Edinburgh for a degree in human rights law in September! 

My best advice is to foster strong faculty relationships in the last couple of years of your undergrad, apply to places even though you don't meet the minimums if you have relevant experience, and don't get discouraged! Best of luck.",66,157,532.6889882635767,GradSchool
When your advisor keeps giving you mixed signals about whether you'll be able to defend this semester,,10,157,596.8030854857989,GradSchool
Dean email regarding tax bill,"Dear (...) Graduate Students,
 
The Senate early this morning approved the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (H.R. 1) by a 51-49 vote. Senator Bob Corker (R-TN) was the only Republican to vote against the bill along with all Democrats.  The House and Senate must now agree to the same version of the bill. A House vote to go to conference with the Senate has been scheduled for 6:30 p.m. on Monday, December 4.
 
The bill that passed was a different version than the one when they started debate.  Around 7 p.m. last night Sen. Majority Leader McConnell offered an amendment that appeared to be a substitute for the entire bill and included a number of concessions needed to secure Republican votes for passage. We are still reviewing the bill, but here are some provisions that pertain directly to graduate students and higher education.
 
First, the revised Senate bill appears to continue to exclude the House-passed provisions that eliminated Section 117(d), which excludes tuition waivers for employees from the declarable taxable income and the student loan interest deduction.  In the Senate bill, graduate student tuition is not taxable income.
 
Second, both the House and Senate versions will tax private university endowments, but the Senate amended their earlier version to raise threshold to tax colleges with assets of at least $500,000 per student as opposed to $250,000 per student. The concession was the result of Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN). 
 
As more information becomes available, we will share it with you.  Please know that the University is advocating with our elected leaders against provisions that will negatively impact graduate students and will continue to do so.  In addition, the (...) Graduate Student Association and the (...) Graduate Student Society have headed efforts to directly contact congressional representatives. You can contact your GSS representatives or go directly to this site: https://www.usa.gov/elected-officials to learn how to contact your senators and representatives.
 
Advocacy made a difference. It was acknowledged that many Senate offices let higher education institutions know they were hearing from grad students and colleges and universities. In the late night hunt for revenues to offset concessions, these student provisions could have easily been thrown back in.  Now we need to keep the pressure up given what the House included and that they could vote on this soon. We are still vulnerable to having many of the harmful House passed provisions stick. If you have not contacted your congressperson, I urge you to do so. Please know that the University is advocating with our elected leaders against provisions that will negatively impact graduate students and will continue to do so. 
 
As a member of the Council of the American Association of Immunologists, I will be on Capitol Hill on Wednesday, December 6 and will be visiting with senators, congresspersons and their staffs.  Be assured that if the bill is not yet passed, this will be the major topic of our advocacy!
 
However this ends up, we will do all within our power to reduce the impact any adopted legislation will have on you as students. Again, please do not hesitate to reach out to me if you have questions or concerns.  I will provide updates as I have them.  
 
Best,
Sr. Assoc. Dean for Graduate Education
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ",19,156,682.1021942820952,GradSchool
Grading finals makes me feel like Rick on Pawnstars...,"I'm trying to not ruin these kids' futures but damn they make it so hard.  Oh I told you find a certain thing with a certain method and you *completely ignored both of those instructions, defeating the entire point of the problem?*  Best I can do is 10 points out of 25.

Undergrads, stop making me feel like an asshole so close to Christmas.  At least read the goddamn instructions.

Edit: Only two people failed the class, twenty percent got C's.  The overall class grades weren't terrible.  My students live another semester.",49,152,1037.2262567820953,GradSchool
Being railroaded by a territorial peer-reviewer,"Guys, I am beyond infuriated right now.

So I submit a manuscript and the reviews come back. The first reviewer enjoys it a lot and makes helpful suggestions, the second goes on and on how I did not take into account the theoretical state-of-the-art of the field and that I need to rework the theory section to use it as a foundation. They then cite 5 papers (all with a common author and none with more than 1 or 2 citations from anyone that isn't that author, CURIOUS) that we ""need to use"". I review those papers. They are unclear and meandering, dense and almost impossible to parse, utterly useless for practitioners, which my paper is aimed at. But most importantly, *the theory is not even applicable to my paper because the author makes a fundamental assumption that cannot be applied to my work under any circumstance. In fact, logical extensions of my theory would render their theory obsolete and I could easily write another paper demonstrating this*.

So I write up a polite, but firm response letter detailing why the reviewer's requested changes will not be implemented and send the paper back. This paper has manuscript status logs and according to them, the reviewer returned their second review 12 minutes after confirming the invitation and wrote a two sentence ""review"" that just restated what they said the first time without any acknowledgement whatsoever of my response, claiming that I ""ignored"" their comments. So they didn't read my response obviously.

Now I'm mad, reddit. I contacted the editorial office to notify them of this, and I honestly would not mind if they out and out rejected me at this point. Am I out of line here? Is this common?",28,154,28.389914189502598,GradSchool
My tips for visiting PhD programs,"With PhD interview season approaching, I thought I would post some advice I wrote a couple years ago on what to look for when visiting a graduate program. Although I only visited biostatistics programs, hopefully some of this advice can be applied to any graduate program visit. There are obviously many things to take into account when choosing a graduate program, but these are things that I believe you can really only find out by visiting a school.

1. Find out if the students are happy. Seriously, go around to students and ask them if they’re happy. 99% of them will tell you the truth, and if you’re smart enough to get invited to visit a PhD program, you can probably tell if they’re lying. However, there is a caveat to this. **Downweight** the opinions of students who have not taken their qualifying exams. The qualifying exam is inherently stressful–if you find someone who is happy with the amount of stress and pressure that comes with a qualifying exam, you should talk to them about life skills rather than graduate school. From my experience as a 1st year student last year, it’s difficult to step back and appreciate the problem solving skills you learn by working through the problems you’re expected to solve to pass the qualifying exam. I think it’s more valuable talking to students in their 3rd and 4th year who have a better perspective to evaluate whether the program provided the appropriate support to get through this challenging time. In addition, these students can tell you about their research experience within the program, which is more representative of what you will be doing for the majority of your time in graduate school.

2. Make sure you see all of the facilities available for the students, especially the student offices. If you know you can’t work from home, you will be spending a lot of time in your office. One of the things I really like about my school is the open office space. Other schools had more cubicle like setups for students, which I was not a fan of. If a program has nice student offices, this is also probably reflective of program funding and generally how well the program treats their students.

3. Try to take time to get a feel for the city that the school is in. Like I said earlier, you’re going to be living here for at least 4-5 years! Visiting weekends are often jam packed with events, but try to visit at least 1 or 2 neighborhoods where a lot of students live and just walk around. You should feel confident that you’re going to enjoy spending time outside of your program/computer.

4. When all is said and done, did you feel at home during the visit? Yes, this is super generic/abstract, but you probably did the same thing for deciding which undergraduate program to attend. Don’t worry too much about the students that you tour with, since not all of them are going to the school you choose. Instead, see if you get along with the students that are already in the program. In addition, you will be able to see how the students and professors interact. One of the things I love about my department is how close knit the department is, but that’s not something that everyone value.

Hopefully this is helpful--I would be interested in seeing what other tips people have!
",48,154,269.9589651154285,GradSchool
Professor demanding to be first author on a paper written by a student,"Hi, I'm asking whether people have had similar experiences and advice for how to deal with a situation.

A student I (a post doc) am partially supervising is about to submit the first paper of the PhD to a conference. We are both working at a lab far away from this students home institute (who is not the same as mine), and this lab is funding both of us.

The issue is that the students university supervisor (who hasn't done much if anything at all) is demanding to be first and corresponding author on the paper, and demanding that the student withdraws the paper if he doesn't comply. The reasons given is that ""this is the policy in his lab, and it would be unfair to the other students if he didn't follow it"", and ""I am well known to the conference and once upon a time I helped organize it"".

To me this is completely batshit insane - sure he can keep his honorary position as last author, but stealing first authorship on a conference paper that I'm not even sure that he has read is beyond the pale. And one thing is this conference paper, however I've hear that he demands to do the same with journal papers.

However I'm not sure how to fight this - or if I should do it at all - after all while this guy has no real power over me, he \*is\* the student's formal supervisor, I don't know the system at this university (i.e. the role of the supervisor), and he might be quite motivated to fight back and ""plug the hole"" or else have a rebellion on his hands. On thing is for sure, he's now on the top of my ""don't go to this supervisor"" list to give to new potential students at our lab...

For what it's worth, it's a subfield of physics that is somewhat close to engineering.  


EDIT:

  
After emails from me and the lab, the supervisor reduced his demands to ""strict alphabetic order""; the most typical in our field is first author and the rest alphabetic, or first/second/sometimes third author/the rest/last author, with the exception of when very large collaborations are involved (but even then there is typically a ""corresponding author"" etc. that actually wrote the paper). Conveniently his name comes early in the alphabet, but oh well.  


Thanks for the feedback and help in navigating this!",46,157,317.3892081709841,GradSchool
I'm a week into my PhD and I want to leave,"I'm a European student in a Canadian university and have a very established scientist as my PI. This was my dream PhD position, but now that I'm here, I am very underwhelmed by everything, everyone. My PI seems not to care, the department is a thoroughly dark, depressing place. I'm also finding social interactions hard, because of the cultural differences (I'm from Norway, and all this forced niceness is an anathema to me). I have met the people in my cohort, all of whom are Canadian/American and most of whom know each other well as they were undergrads and Master's students 
here itself. This makes social interactions harder. To top it all, the pay is pathetic - I can hardly make it meet with this money and I already need a laptop (I had no idea the PI doesn't buy students work PCs from his grant). The teaching duties are also a drag and leave me little time to do anything I enjoy. 

I wonder if this is only the first phase, that culture shock and homesickness are making me feel like this. But I am already losing interest in the science and can't force myself to read any papers anymore. What do you think?

Edit - Thanks for all your responses. I think I've realised that it's just culture shock and all the newness that's making me feel like this. I think I'll wait it out for a few months at least before thinking of anything drastic. 

BTW, I'm in Toronto and for all those wondering, it's really a programme with an overwhelmingly North American presence. The only other international student in my cohort is an equally lost, but very nice Chinese guy. Also, for all those Canadians who took offence at my mention of ""forced niceness"", sorry. It is nice to be greeted politely and all that, but for someone raised in a more reserved society, it's very strange. With everyone being nice, it's hard to know where the genuineness lies and where someone is just being perfunctory.",67,157,401.4371016895026,GradSchool
94% of professors believe their teaching is above average,"I'm currently reading The Happiness Hypothesis by Jonathan Haidt (which I thoroughly recommend by the way), that mentions how people generally seem themselves through rose tinted glasses.

He cites a study [Cross, 1977] that surveyed faculty members and found a startling 94% thought of themselves as above average teachers. 

I've always thought of academia as selecting for more narcissistic personalities. The unconditional belief that you are a brilliant academic, and your research is super-duper important, may be necessary to survive in academia.

(Interestingly, it's one of the reasons I would be a terrible academic. I'm terrible at selling/promoting my own work.)



> Cross, 1977, ""Not can, but will college teaching be improved""
(http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/he.36919771703/abstract)",61,154,714.5213725228359,GradSchool
Apparently I never wanted to edit my introduction,,9,158,1226.2635021524657,GradSchool
"So long asterisk, and thanks for all the fish!","I successfully defended my diseratation yesterday, and I am just so happy it is over! It still hasn't fully sunk in since I've been working on this for so long (9 years if you include the pre-req courses I needed to start my masters). I would have been done a lot sooner, but I was the first in my program to graduate with a doctorate in biomedical informatics (the program used to be housed as a speciality under computer science), and that added some logistical problems as they revamped the comps. Then I decided I needed to play this on hard mode, and I moved out of state after my comps with the intention of finishing remotely. That move tacked on an additional two years, but it got us closer to family, so it has been worth the extra stress so far. I'd call myself a non-traditional in so many ways, but the biggest thing I would want to pass on to others is a PhD is so much more about perseverance than it is about raw intelligence. It is just going to be weird to start to realized when people say Dr. .... they aren't automatically talking about my wife anymore, but I guess that is a good problem to have.",25,156,189.28927761542852,GradSchool
S/O To the TA Quietly Stalking Reddit,"I'm pretty sure that at least one of my TAs is on here. I posted about an issue and within hours it was corrected. I was full-on panicked about the amount of work that was suddenly put out there and bam the due dates were changed. 

They are grad students as much as we are, so it would make sense that somewhere out there is a TA who has to deal with their own grad school drama and then deal with grad students. 

I just wanted to show some Monday morning appreciation for those who are doing both. I'm not a fan of dealing with me OR grad school. So <3 THANK YOU anon TAs",16,155,715.3340114117249,GradSchool
"Feynman responds to a former student who was worried that they [the student] was only working on ""humble problems""","Dear Koichi,

>I was very happy to hear from you, and that you have such a position in the Research Laboratories. Unfortunately your letter made me unhappy for you seem to be truly sad. It seems that the influence of your teacher has been to give you a false idea of what are worthwhile problems. The worthwhile problems are the ones you can really solve or help solve, the ones you can really contribute something to. A problem is grand in science if it lies before us unsolved and we see some way for us to make some headway into it. I would advise you to take even simpler, or as you say, humbler, problems until you find some you can really solve easily, no matter how trivial. You will get the pleasure of success, and of helping your fellow man, even if it is only to answer a question in the mind of a colleague less able than you. You must not take away from yourself these pleasures because you have some erroneous idea of what is worthwhile.

>You met me at the peak of my career when I seemed to you to be concerned with problems close to the gods. But at the same time I had another Ph.D. Student (Albert Hibbs) was on how it is that the winds build up waves blowing over water in the sea. I accepted him as a student because he came to me with the problem he wanted to solve. With you I made a mistake, I gave you the problem instead of letting you find your own; and left you with a wrong idea of what is interesting or pleasant or important to work on (namely those problems you see you may do something about). I am sorry, excuse me. I hope by this letter to correct it a little.

>I have worked on innumerable problems that you would call humble, but which I enjoyed and felt very good about because I sometimes could partially succeed. For example, experiments on the coefficient of friction on highly polished surfaces, to try to learn something about how friction worked (failure). Or, how elastic properties of crystals depends on the forces between the atoms in them, or how to make electroplated metal stick to plastic objects (like radio knobs). Or, how neutrons diffuse out of Uranium. Or, the reflection of electromagnetic waves from films coating glass. The development of shock waves in explosions. The design of a neutron counter. Why some elements capture electrons from the L-orbits, but not the K-orbits. General theory of how to fold paper to make a certain type of child’s toy (called flexagons). The energy levels in the light nuclei. The theory of turbulence (I have spent several years on it without success). Plus all the “grander” problems of quantum theory.

>No problem is too small or too trivial if we can really do something about it.

>You say you are a nameless man. You are not to your wife and to your child. You will not long remain so to your immediate colleagues if you can answer their simple questions when they come into your office. You are not nameless to me. Do not remain nameless to yourself – it is too sad a way to be. now your place in the world and evaluate yourself fairly, not in terms of your naïve ideals of your own youth, nor in terms of what you erroneously imagine your teacher’s ideals are.

Best of luck and happiness.
Sincerely,
Richard P. Feynman.

Source - https://www.quora.com/Im-depressed-because-I-cant-become-the-next-Richard-Feynman-What-should-I-do
",20,157,1035.3664303932062,GradSchool
MRW the lab's grant isn't funded,,6,151,1049.9470901154286,GradSchool
Did/does anyone live with parents while getting their Master's?,"There's a grad school I'm looking at literally 20 minutes away from my mom's house and it's hard to justify the extra 1000s of dollars living on campus when I'll already be in so much debt. I have a good relationship with my mom and she doesn't pry or control. But at the same time...I'll be 22, and my younger sister is planning on moving away. I don't want to be the older kid but still lives at home. What do you guys do?",74,154,163.8377266895026,GradSchool
Do you listen to any good podcasts tuned to grad students and grad school woes?,"Looking for good ones to listen to walking to/from school (and, full disclosure, to connect with on our own podcast!).  They can be science-related OR ones that are cathartic for the typical stresses of grad school.  Bonus points if the hosts are grad students.",63,153,391.1909558561693,GradSchool
PSA: theGradCafe Changing Hands (x-post from r/gradadmissions),"Just wanted to give a PSA here since I'm not sure how long the announcement will be allowed to stay on the TGC by the new owners:

>Dear GradCafe Community:
> 
>We are writing to say goodbye, and give a short explanation of why we have decided to both step down from our official roles and leave the site entirely.

> On June 18, 2018, we learned that the site owner, BGK, sold TheGradCafe to a media marketing group, Code 9 Media. As moderators, we were given a short deadline to decide if we wanted to stay on or leave.
> 
> We strongly believe that the site should be a resource based in community––graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and faculty helping prospective and current graduate students. After discussions with the new﻿ owner, we have concluded that we do not agree about the purpose of the site. We do not believe the new owner’s plans for the site are aligned with our original motivations for participating in the site as contributors and moderators.
> 
> We have watched the GradCafe community grow first as grad students, and now as faculty and postdocs. We all enjoy volunteering significant time each week to give back to the broader community. Rather than continuing on at TGC owned by an outside agency which we are not convinced has the best interests of the community in mind, we have opted to leave and focus our time and attention elsewhere.
> 
> Best of luck to all of you in your journeys as applicants, graduate students, and beyond! 
> 
> Rising_Star (Since 2006)

> Fuzzylogician (Since 2008)

> Eigen (Since 2009)

> TakeruK (Since 2012) 

Link to post on forums: https://forum.thegradcafe.com/topic/109956-saying-goodbye/",24,154,460.2725415043174,GradSchool
"Surviving academic life pro tip: always say you're working, even when you're not.","The culture practically demands it.

We all know that workaholic peer is going to be humble-bragging in front of the PI about staying in the lab till 10 last night. You're not going to win this game by acting like a normal human with a real life outside of work, so just pretend to be like this asshole.

9'oclock at night, smoking weed and playing video games? I'm ""working on a lit review,"" how about you?

----

Seriously though, can we have a conversation about toxic colleagues who want to shame anyone that doesn't publicly martyr themselves at the bench on a daily basis?",55,151,595.018733633947,GradSchool
"Well, I'm done","Handed off my lab book (ugh, it's messy) and all my data is backed up, and my defense is passed and my thesis is submitted pending formatting approval (so I'm probably really like 2-3 weeks off from being done), and I had my exit interview.

My relationship with my PI has been pretty rocky these last 5 years, but we both seemed to have taken the high road with the wrapping up of our professional involvements with one another. They had above and beyond kind words to say about me at the defense, and the exit interview boiled down to a hand off of my unfinished work and a hug. I'm kind of bitter about how it all wrapped up, but at least things worked out.

Thanks for being a place to vent and discuss things /r/gradschool. I'll probably stick around for a bit. I've got about 5 weeks before I start my job, so, you know, time to catch up on video games!",14,154,1300.1186641895026,GradSchool
My experience as a grad student,,25,153,1512.013860948762,GradSchool
This subreddit is starting to make me worry,,45,154,2090.345168819132,GradSchool
Don't Ignore Your Health-A Cautionary Success Story,"I just wanted to share something useful with everyone here that basically has saved my sanity, and my life.

DO NOT IGNORE YOUR HEALTH

I am a stubborn person who tends to power through situations and not reach out. This is one of the worst habits to have in grad school.

Seriously. If you have access to insurance through your program, utilize it. See a primary care doctor, take preventative steps and monitor yourself. Don't be afraid to seek out counseling or psychiatric services either. Let me tell you what happened with me.

This last year has been excruciating and painful. Year 2 of a PhD after going straight from 4 years of undergrad and 2 years of a masters. Mental health and stress at the extremes and work productivity has suffered immensely. I saw the primary care doctor and I was walking around with near stroke level high blood pressure. So we got that taken care of. Also did blood work to rule out any other issues like diabetes, low hormones, etc. Thankfully, no other issues appeared.

I saw a psychiatrist and got started on meds which helped stabilize preexisting mental health conditions, depression and anxiety. Started seeing a counselor to help talk through the issues.

Lastly, just pay attention to your body. Despite all this, I still felt tired and burnt out all the time. I'd wake up tired and I finally asked about sleep issues. Turns out, I do have sleep apnea which can exacerbate mental health problems, high blood pressure and still leave you tired all the time.

Should be getting CPAP next week and having closure that there was a physiological component to my shitty time in grad school felt liberating. I would never have guessed I had apnea, probably had it for years. If I hadn't been into the doctors, I don't think I would make it another 4 years to graduation.

So don't ignore your health and take full advantage of services offered to you. 

tl:dr I was too stubborn to see a doctor for over a year and I had treatable conditions that would have made school so much more tolerable.",26,152,32.35563178209519,GradSchool
Comps,"I did it- I passed my comprehensive exam and will be graduating with my Master’s degree on May 10th! I was crying so hard when I opened up the letter stating I passed. My 5 year old was so worried about me until she realized they were happy tears. She shared that she’s excited to see me graduate. As a mom, I am so happy that she saw how hard I worked studying for my comps and how happy I was when I got the news.",8,153,180.3733979857989,GradSchool
"This isn't impostor syndrome. My undergrad literally did not prepare me for going to a ""real"" university. Advice needed.","To make a long story short, I went to a not-so-grad undergraduate university.  The faculty sucked, the major was on its way to being killed off, and kids in my program didn't care one bit about anything.  I came out with a very high GPA and started applying to grad schools, and managed to get into an extremely good one for my major (top 20).  I was in heaven up until I started.

I'm now realizing (and my advisor is as well) that I am not as well educated in the field as I need to be in order to succeed here.  My advisor was asking me my background in certain areas, and I had to tell her that my undergrad university didn't offer any courses in them, so I now have to take them as a grad student. 

I've made it my goal to essentially re-teach myself some majorly important classes, but it's going to be a struggle to do that on top of my existing course work, TA responsibilities and my thesis.

Any advice on how to best approach this?

EDIT: Wow!  So I just got back from campus today and saw how popular this post got.  I just want to say thank you to everyone who replied.  You've really made me look at this whole situation in a new light.  I now see that what I'm feeling isn't unique, and that a lot of other people have gone through the same thing.  Now with a clear mind, I think that sticking my nose in some beginner textbooks and playing catch-up at a rate that doesn't hinder my thesis work is the answer to this.  Thank you everyone!!",39,154,405.31990261542853,GradSchool
Working from home is a myth,,31,151,530.726222059873,GradSchool
Why Men Don’t Believe the Data on Gender Bias in Science,,131,156,780.0719628006137,GradSchool
Ratted out my advisor,"So, some time ago I asked you guys for some advice on dealing with an advisor who has taken two years to finally hand back revisions for a chapter.  I probably should've dealt with this earlier, but I took that time to finish writing my dissertation and now it's been 9 months since I handed in a draft of the entire thing.  I also had a child during that time.  Anyway, after much prodding on my part, I finally received one chapter back. At this rate, I'll never get to my defense, so I mustered up the courage and contacted the chair of my department as per some of the advice I'd gotten here on reddit.  He forwarded my email to the grad coordinator, so now I'm just waiting on a response.  She's been doing this to another one of her students and has taken a year to return 2 out of 8 chapters.  I'm proud that I'm standing up for myself, but I'm also incredibly nervous as to what the repercussions are going to be.  ",27,150,1098.4875415043175,GradSchool
"A day after defending, I feel like I've woken up from a nightmare.","In my senior year, I read this analogy about how grad school was like being in a train going uphill - as the train starts slowing down, you throw out whatever you can to keep moving forward.

Toward the end, writing my dissertation felt like a race against my sanity. I'd started to hate who I'd become, and started to fear that I'd never find my way back.

This morning, I feel like who I was 4 years ago.

As I write thank you notes to everyone who has helped me along the way, I realize now how unnatural I've felt over the last 4 years. For once, my thoughts aren't filled with *my* concerns: *my* studies, *my* dissertation, *my* work. I feel like someone has taken off the blinders and now I can see the rest of my life again for what it is. 

Of course, there are future challenges - I am an expat trying to find a job in the U.S. - but at least I'll be able to face them as *me* rather than someone I had to be. In some ways, I really was the impostor, pretending to be someone else. 

I just wanted to write this to share how surprised I was at how different I feel now that I'm done. I thought I'd basically be the same person, but I was wrong. I'm just really happy that I get to pick up from where I left off when I last *really* lived my life, with a nice degree to boot. ",15,150,1130.4802729857988,GradSchool
"brb, defending my PhD thesis in two hours",Maybe I should get off reddit...,21,152,1405.712645670984,GradSchool
TIFU in my lab. Supervisor was cool with it. You should find a supervisor you like more than a school wth a good name.,"Context - I'm a graduate student studying anaerobic digestion. One of our main inoculum sources are manures. Today while setting up a new cycle of bioreactor I was pumping out the air of one of the bioreactors and zoned out for 10 seconds. All of a sudden I hear a POP! The rubber seal on top of the reactor gets sucked in and liquid cow shit gets hosed around the entire lab.
A few seconds later my supervisor and 3 other students walk in to see me on the ground sitting, and the lab covered full of cow shit

My supervisor helped me clean it up, laughed, told me to go home early. ",17,155,1594.1244049302436,GradSchool
I can't keep to a schedule and it's causing problems,"Ideally, I'd like to wake up around 6-7am, get ready for the day, arrive at the office by 9am, work solidly until 5pm, and then head home, make dinner, clean up, etc. Instead, I wake up at 10am, I haphazardly get dressed, get in to the office sometime before ~midday, work ineffectively until 7-8pm, then head home and manage to do nothing constructive at all. 

I can't keep track of time. Just getting dressed somehow takes me an hour even though I'm definitely not putting that much thought into it. Add in a shower and trying to plan out the day and I can easily not get in to the office until early afternoon some days. I get home around 9pm, watch one 30min show, and suddenly it's 3am by the time I'm done. Time seems to run away so quickly that I can't afford to do anything other than bare necessities. I wake up in the morning and then 3 seconds later it's midnight. I set notifications for myself but immediately forget they ever happened. I thought maybe it was my poor sleep times, but after weeks of solid effort to bring those forwards even a tiny bit, I've managed to shift my sleep schedule by exactly *zero* minutes. I need to go to sleep earlier if I want any chance of waking up earlier, but I don't slow down until I'm exceptionally tired. 

I already spoke to my psychiatrist, but he doesn't seem to think it's a big problem, and is kinda resigned to just accepting it. The department accepts it. I don't want to accept it.

**So how do you keep to a schedule with these kinds of attention and memory problems?** I guess I'm interested to hear from people with ADHD in particular, but other conditions with similar symptoms count too. ",77,152,217.88277298579888,GradSchool
"""You need to fix your DNA alignment!""",,13,147,497.89950909691004,GradSchool
"Is grad school 100% pain and misery? I'm thinking about applying because I'm passionate about my field, but what I see on this sub is discouraging.",,140,151,712.3613262265396,GradSchool
University of Chicago grad students vote to unionize,,10,152,723.7033864117249,GradSchool
I am about to punt some undergrads right in the face,"Read the lab.

Read the lab.

Read the lab you stupid fucks.

Goddamn I forgot how terrible TAing is.",87,149,1119.788097059873,GradSchool
"Got a one-word email response from my advisor: ""Perfect.""","Too bad is was in regards to scheduling a meeting next week, and not my dissertation work.",43,153,2014.3560484487618,GradSchool
Long time lurker.....now Dr. Lurker,"Hi! Just wanted to say: Despite a couple of deaths in my family and surgeries, I completed my biomedical PhD this month. It's surreal. 

Good luck to everyone going through a program. All I can say is be stubborn and persevere. ",25,150,2094.894925763577,GradSchool
Six project-management tips for your PhD,,6,150,56.34993733765074,GradSchool
Happy Thanksgiving to everyone else out there who might be working tonight!,You're not alone ♡,19,154,326.9190577080211,GradSchool
"My friend shouted, “You have a BA, a Masters and a Ph.D., but you still act like an idiot!”",,3,149,358.96984474505814,GradSchool
Revisions got me like,,6,151,544.9690808561693,GradSchool
This meme seems applicable here,,18,148,1438.1259790043173,GradSchool
For those feeling isolated - find your tribe!,"Yesterday I finally went for lunch with a group of PhD students from other departments in my university. We met on a personal development type training day and kept in touch meaning to meet up in person to support each other. It was brilliant - we listened to each others experiences, shared our doubts and fears, and laughed a lot. I've had a rough year of PhD and realised I was becoming more and more isolated, and it was so energising to spend time with these amazing people. 

I'm just posting to say - PhDs can be so hard emotionally, and doing it alone is terrifying. If you're having a hard time see if you can reach out to other students. Going beyond your department lifts some of the ""political"" pressure and gave me some much needed perspective.",12,147,59.30592113394704,GradSchool
"I need a job so I can quit grad school, I got into grad school because I can't find a job...","Long story short: I had a job for 6 years that left me burnt out and suicidal and which I quit to come back to my parents' place and try to rebuild my life doing something else. Two years of mostly unemployment later, in a panic over the future, I applied to grad school and was accepted. It is a humanities and lit sort of Master's (I have one already in Publishing) and frankly, the only thing it really leads to is teaching or a Ph.D. I have already tried HS teaching and it's not for me! And as the year goes and I fail at doing any meaningful research and my work is, at best, adequate, I'm regretting signing up for this. 

The thing is, I've already failed enough and as I don't know what I want to work in, let alone how to go about finding work since, clearly I suck at that, I don't see how I can quit grad school. It's something even though it's making me feel really really shit and despair. I'm also someone who's always done well in school and there's this assumption from everyone I know that of course I'll be fine and get this degree and then a PhD and go on to be \*somebody\*. 

I'm having a very rough time right now and I can't really talk about it with anyone because the first question will be ""well, what do you actually want to do?"" for which the answer is ""nothing, there is nothing I actually want to do"". I don't even like what I'm studying, it's essentially more of the same I've already done but I feel it's also the only thing I know how to do... 

I'm feeling very trapped and I don't know how to get out of this situation. ",47,145,291.3427729857989,GradSchool
First semester of Grad school,"I got a 92% on the final of the hardest class I have ever taken in my life!!!! I had a 95% in the class with a final worth 50% of our grade left. I needed an 85 on the final to get an A- in the class and I ended up getting a 92!!!! I got a solid A! My first semester of grad school will end with a 4.00!!! 

I finally feel at home in my program. I can't wait for next semester :-) I wasn't even sure I would make it this far. ",12,145,308.99065493024335,GradSchool
Wonderful advisor but I still hate grad school,"My advisor is a young, new professor, and she is kind, patient, and overall wonderful. Yet, during this Thanksgiving break, I am inching closer and closer to saying goodbye forever to my PhD program and to academia. I am in my 2nd year. I might be able to finish my Master's in 1-2 more semesters. Then, I shall leave this torturous elitist place where I am struggling financially, mentally, and existentially. It makes sense when people feel this way when they also struggle with their advisor and lab. I like my advisor and my lab, but I still must say, I hate grad school. ",40,147,325.1808748376508,GradSchool
4 years into PhD without a thesis... I done messed up,"I won't waste time making excuses. The situation is that I don't have a way to complete my PhD, so I'm just counting down the time until the department pulls my stipend.

I've got some skills (molecular biology, epidemiology and mathematical modeling), but no experience, no pubs, and no industry contacts. Is there any way to transition into an industry position from here? It really feels like I've fallen into a well with no ladder, as I have 4 years of ""gap time"" on my resume with nothing to show for it.

I accept full responsibility for what's happened... I never should have gone to grad school and took far too long to realize that I wasn't cut out for the work. Not looking for sympathy, just a way out!

Edit:  I'm in the US.",63,150,331.05060863394704,GradSchool
I defended yesterday!,"...and have removed the little asterisk from my flair!

These posts are few and far between on this subreddit, but worth celebrating. It's a long journey, it's hard, and not everybody reaches the end. Nobody goes through graduate school without experiencing a massive amount of self-doubt at one time or another. Thank you all for your encouragement, support, and advice over the last 5 years. There is an end!

-Dr. neurosciencey",13,152,1224.268872522836,GradSchool
MRW making a thesis proposal,,3,148,2093.8662799302433,GradSchool
I feel like an underpaid babysitter for adults who aren’t actually adults yet,"This is my first summer as a grad student. I am in biology and I love TAing over the school year, but the summer has been so stressful and awful. My PI hired 8 undergrads as research assistants this summer but after the first couple weeks, she stopped coming in to manage them and the responsibility switched to me and the other grad student working in the lab. 

This is more of a rant if anything and to see if anyone else has this issue. It has been so draining trying to do my own work as well as constantly having to find something for the undergrads to do. I feel like a manager but without the perks of an actual manager- no one actually listens to me and there’s no discipline from my PI. These undergrads have messed up my research several times, they refuse to do the work I give them, they pester for different tasks, they just seem to endlessly pester me every day but they never actually listen to what I say. 

The final straw has been this week where I went on vacation for the week. It was approved by my PI, everyone knew I was leaving, yet at 9:05 am on the dot Monday morning I receive two frantic emails from an undergrad and my PI. Both demanding data for an undergrad project due two days later. Data I didn’t have, data I couldn’t send (no wifi) even if I did have it, for a project an undergrad procrastinated and didn’t mention until the last minute. I was roadtripping in the western USA where phone service is spotty and nonexistent but I still felt obligated to spend 1-2 hours typing data on my phone to send an email to both of them. 

I have been dealing with this for 8+ weeks and just wanted to vent & see if anyone else deals with this. I thought this would end after the summer but I just got an email from my PI stating she’s hiring 5 undergrads for the school year as well. Thank god this is just a masters degree!",53,148,68.23064335616927,GradSchool
Even the contents of my thesis are unoriginal.,,1,145,372.51634937468776,GradSchool
How to Read Like a Doctoral Student (xpost from /r/academia),,23,148,466.07437020802115,GradSchool
I finally got an NSF grant!,"Technically, it was supplemental funding to my PI's career award, but it funds me for 6 months at a non-academic internship!  I gotta say it will be nice working in something besides a lab for a few months. Starting next week, I'll be working full time in a patent firm.",12,146,775.256708170984,GradSchool
I passed my defense! Reflecting on grad school...,"Overall I had a good grad school experience.  My advisor wasn't terrible.  I didn't have too many sleepless nights.  Didn't get divorced.  Didn't have a mental breakdown.  I was generally liked and liked the people I worked with.

Much of this subreddit suffers from selection bias in that the best/worst stories are emphasized in both voting and discussion.  I offer a counterpoint - the vast majority of experiences are probably unremarkable.  A PhD is a feat of endurance, the hardest part is just slogging through.

Perhaps the biggest challenge was the internal struggle of impostor syndrome, procrastination, and organization.  Of course I could have done a lot of thing better but I think the key thing to remember is that **grad school is just a means to an end.**  It is a tool to achieve a larger goal.  When you put it in context a lot of your anxiety may be irrelevant in the grand scheme of things.  (Will you care in 2 years that this experiment flopped? No.)

I don't remember much of my coursework, and I'll probably never use it again, but I do remember, ""**I learned something like that...**"" so I can look it up in the future.  I think, especially for engineering, academic education is about exposing you to a breadth of material and the real utility is understanding the fundamentals that links it all together.  To develop a good intuition of, ""That does/doesn't make sense."" is, imo, one of the take-away points of schooling.

Many people here stress when choosing a school/advisor/project to **work with people you like**, and I too will stress this point.  You will be spending a lot of time with your labmates, advisor, and staff.  My experience has shown me something very valuable which I hope to take with me into my career: **what motivates me most is working for others.**  If I am accountable only to myself I will procrastinate or pursue perfectionism to the detriment of the final product, and I am very good at rationalizing my failures afterwards.  Having accountability to others gives my project purpose, and the human connection has meaning.  I am able to assess my work in regards to how it helps others and meet their needs - and in the end also meet my own.  This is something very powerful.

In the end all that will be remembered of your work is what you wrote down, so I'd encourage you to keep (at least!) weekly updates.  I had many half-pursued projects and many more failures.  In the end I was able to see how what I learned from those experiences fit into the development of my later work, but it was a chore to actually sit down and document what happened and why after the fact.  **Try to draft papers/abstracts/procedures sooner rather than later**; the time it takes is worth it to develop your ideas into a coherent goal.  The hardest part was writing my dissertation, just due to the vast amount of *stuff* I did (""Wow I did all that!? It seemed so useless at the time!"")

Just remember that getting your PhD isn't the goal itself.  A PhD is just a tool you can use to your benefit.  It raises the cap on your potential opportunities, but it doesn't automatically provide for you on its own.  You will come out in the end, so don't lose sight of what's really important - the relationships with those around you, your health, your mental well-being (this is not worth fretting about!), and your opportunities later in life.  And don't fret that your grad school experience is unremarkable - most people's are (you just never hear about them),",23,144,1869.373722059873,GradSchool
"Bad news, everybody.",,6,149,2083.0948563191323,GradSchool
FAQ for /r/GradSchool - here we go!,"Hi /r/GradSchool readers!

***Please upvote for the visibility - this is a self post and it does not receive any karma. Thanks!***

I've contacted one of the mods, /u/jonosss, and we have green light to act on a FAQ for this sub.

Thanks to all of you who put ideas into the [google document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EyXGYzZ273FeSNMERD1qisuszN5uG4ZS9m7VSiEXRpw/edit?usp=sharing) regarding topics you would like to find in a FAQ. I am keeping this document open for all of those who still want to contribute this way. Here is the [LINK](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EyXGYzZ273FeSNMERD1qisuszN5uG4ZS9m7VSiEXRpw/edit?usp=sharing). It's open for editing to anyone with the link.

**This being said there is another way you can contribute**. I would set up another document for those of you who wants to help creating the content. We come from different countries (most from U. S. but still) so it would be perfect if at least few of you could contribute, so that FAQ will not be a subjective, but as objective as it can. Why not set up an open document? Well, in that case it would be really hard to keep everything in a good flow without any mess. When document is closed and everyone is using gmail names and so on, it's easy to peer-review everything and discuss issues / changes. After finishing, or when we decide that we have something valuable to show, we will reformat this into a Reddit FAQ style and publish for the whole community.

**How you can contribute?** Simply PM me with your e-mail so I can add you to the document editing team.

**What I will get?** Satisfaction and incredible IF among our community. Every contributing author will be acknowledged!

Cheers!",22,144,2346.6980276154286,GradSchool
"""I’m an ASE at UW. Here’s what that is, and why we’re on strike."" - A well written explanation of what graduate students are and why we deserve a livable stipend.",,71,148,517.4827845598729,GradSchool
The most concise research paper ever!,,13,145,1582.4130970598728,GradSchool
#overlyhonestmethods,"Here are some of mine:

Sites were selected because there was a nice forest service road right next to them. 

Sites were removed because we found materials indicative of a mobile meth lab.

Traps were hung 3 m above the ground to keep bears from eating my samples before I could collect them.

Traps were collected weekly because I only had one day a week without classes where I could actually go in the field.

Insects were collected in propylene glycol because you can buy a case of it for $20 at Auto Zone.

DNA was extracted using a Qiagen DNeasy kit because that's what the lab that I was using had in house already.

What are yours?",95,143,1631.263860948762,GradSchool
Don't you love the holidays?,,21,149,1784.2344280783914,GradSchool
As an undergrad I saw this taped to the door of our collaborator's lab and it took me 2 years of working there until I finally understood it in entirety.,,19,147,2042.821083170984,GradSchool
"I knew the transition to grad school would be hard, but it's even harder than I thought",This is mainly just me venting but dang grad school is a whole different ball game from undergrad. I knew it would be tough and a lot of work but I feel like I'm constantly working and yet not absorbing or learning the material well enough. My semester is already 1/4 of the way over and I feel like I've accomplished nothing. I keep missing things in readings/class discussions that everyone else seems to get and I just feel stupid all the time :/,28,144,21.88119891172482,GradSchool
Suspicious Research Assistantship Opportunity (Updated),"\- An adjunct lecturer circulated an email asking for a graduate statistics student for help on a project on sovereign defaults.

&#x200B;

\- We meet for an interview. She asks about my background. She then asks me to explain a technical question in a week to confirm understanding of the topic.

&#x200B;

\- She then hires me.

&#x200B;

\- In the first meeting after hiring me, she asks whether or not I am an int'l student. I tell her that I am an int'l student.

&#x200B;

\- She says that any payments from the college would raise red flags and therefore she would buy me items, such as chocolates, as compensation.

&#x200B;

\- She sends me the file and I start working on it. Along the way, however, something does not feel right. Therefore I wrote to her telling her that I do not accept items, such as chocolates, as compensation. I also inform her that international students are permitted to work up to 20 hours per week when school is in session.

&#x200B;

\- Do you think that the university will try to get me to leave just so it can avoid bad publicity?",74,147,165.02396511542852,GradSchool
Why can't I study like the way I read random junk on reddit.,"I can easily spend hours reading completely random stuff on reddit or wikipedia, learning about things like how fast a mantis shrimp can punch,

yet when it comes to reading my textbook, lecture notes, I find it tedious and exhausting.

How can I improve this.",28,142,675.5793007635767,GradSchool
"I just passed my ""Trial by Mental Combat"" otherwise known as dissertation defense",Removing that star now!,10,145,831.0990345598731,GradSchool
Get 8 hours of sleep,"Before going on vacation last month, I was averaging 6-7 hours of sleep every night. While on vacation and since coming back, I now get 8 hours of sleep.

Everything feels different now. I can concentrate for more than 10-15 minutes, I can understand  and easily retain more complex information, and I'm more involved in meetings. My advisor complimented my presentation and research efforts for the first time in a while.

I was feeling terrible for a long time, thinking that I was not cut out for graduate school (finishing up my third year). Now I think I was just chronically sleep-deprived. Goodbye weekday social life, but it's at a good cost. Get your needed sleep.",27,149,861.0757590969099,GradSchool
Just got my first acceptance into a Phd program!,"Like the title says, I just got my first offer of acceptance to my #2 choice program. It includes 5 years of funding, full benefits, etc., and I feel like I could just fly. 

Now the wait for the other program I applied to is just absolute torture. Hopefully it should only be a week or two until I hear back from them. 

Also found out that I had a payroll error and I will be getting a $1k check in a week. Considering my luck so far this week, I should go buy some lottery tickets and see what happens. ",14,149,973.3373215969101,GradSchool
Successfully defended my PhD Thesis Proposal !!,"**TLDR; May not be a useful post for you - Just sharing my success story.**


It was 10 days ago and was a grand success! I was extremely nervous since this work was independent, without any supervision (my advisor is too busy to meet with all his students regularly, so students typically work with a research engineer, but some end up working independently). However I should acknowledge that I did take a couple of classes this past spring where I aligned my class projects with my thesis and had some feedback from the instructors. 


I used to wake up every day (the last few weeks leading up to the proposal) with the nightmare that my committee might totally call BS on my work. Instead they showered praises after the exam that I answered all the questions very well and that my proposal was ""solid"". My advisor was particularly pleased with my presentation and wanted  to use my slides as a model for other students to follow (but he is in general a very nice guy and it is hard to hear negative remarks from him). There were indeed some criticism as to what needs to be improved in my work, but that certainly did not make the headlines! This whole thing has totally boosted my confidence!

Finally, I thank r/gradschool for all the good posts about people who successfully got through this stage of their PhD and I learned a lot from them. Atleast for me reddit was not a waste of time :-). ",9,147,1197.2154465969102,GradSchool
This book is required for my graduate thermo course...that last sentence,,12,146,1506.336685022836,GradSchool
Grad school is already fucking with my brain and I'm not even there yet.,"So I accepted an offer online on April 9. Super excited and so on. Then last night at like 1:30 AM I got this stern email from my school saying I hadn't accepted their offer and that their funding package had been withdrawn. I changed my underwear and called the department head in the middle of the night to leave a frantic message. I tried to go to sleep, but it just wasn't possible.

The next morning at about 11 I get a call from the department head and an email from the IT department saying there was a mistake, that I had accepted on time and everything was fine. Then I ate some ice cream and cried a little.",15,148,1633.7652382635767,GradSchool
"In the absence of close, productive mentoring by a faculty member, how do you become your own mentor?","While I believe it is obviously necessary to have a supportive mentor during a research project, my project seems to be very independent and I've not been able to gather much helpful mentorship from my advisor on my current project. 

What steps can I take to become my own research mentor? I've been trying to read all the relevant papers and keep all the knowledge in my working memory to figure out the next step in my project but this has gone quite poorly. 

Is there some way that I can ""talk myself"" through the higher-level planning steps and effectively become my own research mentor? I have found that I talk to myself most efficiently using a journal so that would be a tool I'd be most comfortable making use of. 

For example, maybe I could simulate what a meeting with a good advisor might go like on the page itself by asking myself the same questions an advisor would. I will note that I am in a doctoral theoretical physics program doing research in AdS/CFT and my main frustration as of right now is with methodology: when there are two choices in how to compute something, which should I choose? How will I know if I am implementing this method correctly?

Any tips would be greatly appreciated!",30,149,34.39176604135445,GradSchool
Suspicious Research Assistantship Opportunity (Updated),"\- An adjunct lecturer circulated an email asking for a graduate statistics student for help on a project on sovereign defaults.

\- We meet for an interview. She asks about my background. She then asks me to explain a technical question in a week to confirm understanding of the topic.

\- She then hires me.

\- In the first meeting after hiring me, she asks whether or not I am an int'l student. I tell her that I am an int'l student.

\- She says that any payments from the college would raise red flags and therefore she would buy me items, such as chocolates, as compensation.

\- She sends me the file and I start working on it. Along the way, however, something does not feel right. Therefore I wrote to her telling her that I do not accept items, such as chocolates, as compensation. I also inform her that international students are permitted to work up to 20 hours per week when school is in session.

\- Here are some parts of the her reply via email:

1. ""it is becoming truly sad speaking about your inability to work."" 
2. ""It shows that you are not ready for any serious work at all. Therefore, based on your letters I already knew much earlier that you never worked seriously for research studies.""

\- I'm currently planning to contact and forward this email to the university's HR department. I also plan to CC the dept. chair.

\- Do you think that the university will try to get me to leave just so it can avoid bad publicity?

&#x200B;

\- I emailed the dept. chair to set up a meeting to discuss in-person this Monday. He finally replied to the email this Thursday. He said he doesn't see a need for a meeting.

&#x200B;

\- Given this, what do you also recommend aside from going to the ombudsperson?

&#x200B;

Edit: I don't understand why a Redditor on this post is suspicious and claiming that this post is somehow ""off""....",65,145,159.35555076357667,GradSchool
"Does anyone else ""shut down"" after receiving feedback/edits?","I absolutely haaaate getting feedback/edits from my committee chair. It gives me SO much anxiety. Seeing all that red, all those strikethroughs and comments..... Ughhh. Then that feeling that your voice is being erased from all the changes... Just horrible. 

Makes me shut down. Seriously, why do you think I'm on reddit now instead of editing??  😭 ",53,145,369.28809705987294,GradSchool
I'm finally free of my restricted admission letter!,"Disclaimer: this is a shameless solicitation for pats on the back and mild congratulations.

I am currently in my 2nd year of a PhD program - my research focus is astronomy, but the actual degree is in physics, and the program is housed entirely in a physics department at a Decent Large State University. Not a big name, but well regarded in my subfield. 

I took a long and unusual path to get where I am today. My undergrad degree is in a humanities field, so I spent a long time doing postbacc coursework in physics, research, and an MS in astronomy (unusual for Americans) before getting into this PhD program. 

Coursework didn't go so well my first year at my current school, but my advisor lobbied hard for a second chance to fulfill my restricted admission conditions, which I finally did this fall. I made an A- in graduate classical mechanics, AND a B+ in my extremely intensive astrophysics course. Not bad for a former English major!

It was a boatload of work. I spent upwards of 12 hours a day on campus studying, doing practice problems, going to office hours, working with my study group, and filling in all the missing information in Landau & Lifshitz (ugh).

I am really proud of myself. I started this journey with less background than my peers, and I managed to finally get on their level. It was probably the hardest I have ever worked in my entire educational career - I had to break a lot of bad, lazy habits acquired a long time ago. But I did it.

Now, back to laboring on my candidacy paper.",16,144,664.3102266895027,GradSchool
tis the season,,6,143,1341.3022174302434,GradSchool
"Touche, Reddit.",,18,147,2125.236268356169,GradSchool
"From my close friend who studied geology at my university (5-6 years to graduate undergrad, screwed around a bit in HS and freshman year), worked with Harvard throughout Africa in groundbreaking studies, and currently gives talks/writes articles for Nat Geo during grad school:","Just do these things: 1. Treat school like a job, jobs mean  you go home at a reasonable time. 2. CLOSELY monitor your mental health. Get a psychiatrist, go in debt for one if you have to. 3. Exercise, get outside. 4. Never ever compare yourself with other grad students, all it will is make you feel bad. 
I mean, as an undergrad you feel “coddled” as in you, as an undergraduate, have “rights.”
I work with some of the smartest people on Earth...I honestly do all of the time. I shouldn’t, but I do. It’ll happen to you, too, but don’t let it consume you. You will never be the girl who got a Stanford PhD at 19, or the undergrad who just invented a spinal implant that allows paraplegics to walk. However, it doesn’t matter. The decision that you made in life has led you to become a scholar at a top institution of learning. Just because the person in the office next to you has twice the murders under your belt doesn’t mean you’re not killing it as well.",17,146,111.78438178209518,GradSchool
"Sitting down, staring at a computer and working from home all day is getting me down","I'm a year into my PhD and I'm starting to get really stuck in a rut, not with my work necessarily but just generally in life. Before my PhD I worked a really active job at a venues manager (putting on gigs and festivals, lots of running about, working with people), and I'm really starting to miss it. The 'novelty' of the PhD schedule has well and truly worn off and I'm really struggling staying focused when I miss the excitement of my previous job. I'm also starting to feel less motivated by the PhD because I'm starting to think I'd rather go back to something like my old job rather than a career in research/office based work.    


Has anyone got any advice of how to get out of this mindset or can share any similar experiences?   
",41,143,274.8779928932063,GradSchool
I did it!,"My defense was yesterday and I passed! Struggled with feeling overwhelmed but relieved and sad about how I hadn’t “nailed it” (does anyone?) but it started to feel actually real today when the grad school processed my report on my exit seminar. My committee mostly had comments about my analysis and discussion, not my methods which I took as a good sign and they were really encouraging about publishing potential. Now onto edits... starting Monday :)",8,142,550.9894859487619,GradSchool
Grad School Horror Story,"So this happened last fall, when I was waiting in front of my PI's office. I was waiting for him, as he already had a reputation for being frequently late and narcoleptic, so either he was late or he was sleeping in his office. Don't get me wrong, he's a cool guy.

So I was waiting for him, and the door to the professor next door's was cracked open. I could hear her (Prof) talking to a student (let's call him Andrew). Prof is a tenured professor, about 20+ years at the Uni, and Andrew is a 3rd year PhD candidate. Now, I didn't mean to eavesdrop, but I have pretty big ears. And their conversation was quite audible given how quiet the hallway was.

To the best of my memory, I'm writing down their conversation.

>Prof: ""Why haven't you gotten your experiments done?""

>Andrew: ""Professor, please. I'm in a very bad situation in my life, just let me explain.""

>Prof: ""Okay. Tell me.""

>Andrew: ""My family died in a car crash earlier this term, and it's been very chaotic. It's hard for me to focus on experiments because there's just so much I need to attend to right now.""

>Prof: ""Okay, that's nice. So why haven't you finished your experiments.""

>Andrew: ""I don't know what to say, Prof. I've been trying my hardest to do the experiments...""

>Prof: ""Try harder. Oh and also, your funding is running out for next year.""

>Andrew: ""What?""

>Prof: ""Your funding is gone for next year. Not enough grant money.""

>Andrew: ""What do you want me to do? I can't stay here if I'm not funded, and I have to take care of things back at home too...""

>Prof: ""That's fine. Given the rate you've been doing experiments, you're just wasting funds anyways. I recommend you take a leave for a quarter or a year and seriously consider if you want to continue wasting time like you already have.""

>Andrew: ""...Should I continue the experiments?""

>Prof: ""Yes, get as much as you can get done before you leave. Its not a problem if you don't come back, I'll get someone else who is self-funded to do the rest.""

Thankfully at this point in the conversation my PI woke up and let me into his office while apologising. Couldn't hear the rest of their conversation. I heard Andre sobbing as he left the office next door while I was in my PI's office, who was drifting away again even though he just woke up.


Guess who didn't come back to grad school this term?",58,145,614.6074141895026,GradSchool
"Seriously, can we ditch the GRE already?","My friend and I publish a weekly podcast called [Hello PhD](http://hellophd.com) that explores the challenges of science training and the weird world of lab culture. This week on the show, [we discussed the GRE](http://hellophd.com/2015/12/023-gre/) - specifically how it doesn't really measure skills that are needed to succeed in grad school. This is based on increasing evidence that the GRE isn't predictive of how well grad students do, and it has been shown to have significant gender and racial biases. 

Though our podcast focuses mainly on science grad students and postdocs, I thought this topic would be broadly interesting to this group!

EDIT: Here's a link to a Nature article we discuss entitled, [""A Test that Fails""](http://www.nature.com/naturejobs/science/articles/10.1038/nj7504-303a). ",147,145,1407.181823911725,GradSchool
Any other grad students live with chronic illness?,"Just figured to ask. I do and I've never met another grad student in the same boat, which can be challenging at times because my colleagues don't always understand what I'm going through personally with work/life balance.

Edit: Thank you all for your responses. I have really appreciated them and the support. A few additions:


-Many graduate students deal with physical and mental illnesses, and everyone has life to contend with too. Hopefully this post continues to generate good discussion, as everyone's struggles are valid. 

-With this all being said, I've run into my fair share of people who don't believe that those with a disability should be in academia over productivity concerns. By a fair share, I mean a lot. Maybe it's just my current situation, but not knowing other graduate students in similar situations was extremely difficult when I was first diagnosed because I didn't know what was possible. Most of the information I had was negative and that a PhD really wasn't accessible to someone who was chronically ill. So, I hope that this post helps others who are in the same stage currently.",95,142,86.24219428209518,GradSchool
Working when feeling heavily depressed,"To fellow PhD students who have depression: on days when depression hits you hard, how do you keep on working?

I've recently had a couple of days (including today), where I desperately needed working and making progress but low levels of serotonin was making it really hard. Could not find a fix for it yet so any advice is appreciated.",56,144,121.15053918950261,GradSchool
My thesis got accepted!,And I just finished my last semester of grad school!!! I am DONE! Woohoo!!,9,139,305.14824752283596,GradSchool
What is it about grad school that burns everyone out?,"I'm currently an undergrad with hopes of one day pursuing a PhD, but it seems like a (concerningly) significant amount of posts both here and in r/AskAcademia are about being burnt out/hitting a wall.

If you've been in that situation, what caused it? Is it a matter of the work being too difficult? Is there too much work to be done? Is it the pressure, and if so pressure in what respect? Sorry I know I'm asking a lot, but it's just hard to understand from the outside looking in.",89,140,365.67318965246557,GradSchool
Just finished masters defence :),I got a very good grade for it. Is it still smart to put the grade on my resume ? How big is the chance that people want to look over my thesis ?,12,139,400.32247205987295,GradSchool
Bye Bye Asterisk,It is done as of 4:00 today. I still have papers to submit and edits to my thesis to make but it is all downhill from here. So much went into the last 8 years but I beat grad school and cancer. It feels good and now I can move on.,17,145,1033.9070090969099,GradSchool
Why do so many PhD students struggle with depression?,,67,145,1433.161557708021,GradSchool
I figured in grad school conversations with profs would stop feeling like this,,13,143,1698.9115692820953,GradSchool
crying at school,"I've heard early-career assistant profs talk about crying at work, grad students talk about crying in their meetings with their advisors. I know this happens. But only when it actually happened to me did I realize how bad it is, and how bad it must have been for those who have experienced this.

I know it sounds like all these people are just weak or emotional or snowflake-y. But it \*is\* that bad. I met with my supervisor about 8 hours ago and I have cried at least three times so far hiding in the bathroom. I'm pretty sure he didn't do anything wrong and I'm not even really angry with him nor do I hate him. But I just can't stop crying. The extent is at least as bad as a bad breakup except what happened is nothing alike in essence. I don't know how to get out of this.",94,142,104.92962483765075,GradSchool
Is it normal to feel unaccomplished and mediocre when you're writing your dissertation/planning for graduation? How do you overcome these feelings?,,22,141,134.14904613394702,GradSchool
When your advisor has a bit of a freak-out...,"I got an angry email from my new advisor this morning accusing me of breaking beakers and incorrectly washing the glassware (leaving dirty glassware in the sink, etc.) I was a bit shocked because I followed all the procedures to a tee, and was pretty certain I didn't break anything. I later found out it happened in our alternate lab, while I was working in the primary lab!

I emailed her something along the lines of ""I'm very sorry that glassware was broken and I can understand your frustration. I am certain I followed [x procedure] and did not break any glassware. To clarify, did this happen in the downstairs lab? I was working in the upstairs lab, so the culprit could not have been me! Please let me know if I can help out with the cleanup, however.""

Was this an appropriate response?

How do I not take this so personally? How do you deal with your advisor having a bit of a freak-out? I'm a bit hurt she assumed it was me/

She did apologize afterwards and sent the original email to the whole lab asking about what happened.",21,143,376.28160400431744,GradSchool
Academic AND gamer. Anybody else?,"Hi guys. I created a throw away account for this as it's a little embarrassing, but I'm in my first year phd (history) *AND* I'm a gamer. That's my confession. I was having a discussion with my peers the other day and they asked what I like to do in my spare time. I told them I play PC games. Instead of asking it about what I play or why I'm interested in gaming, they sort of snickered and changed the convo to hiking or whatever the hell they were interested in.   


Am I the only gamer in my field? It's a worry and I'm wondering if it's something I should think twice about if it's looked down upon.",127,142,411.5746132635767,GradSchool
My old supervisor published my work as his own,"I’m currently doing my MSc in psychology in a different university from where I did my undergraduate. I’ve just found out that my supervisor from the last year of my undergrad has used my dissertation and had it published in a good journal with no mention of my name anywhere in the paper. 

I did everything. I collected the data that he has used. He used my graphs, diagrams and results. Most importantly though, he passed my idea off as his own. There is a section in the paper that talks about how useful the experiment is because of the novel approach that the study included - and it was all my idea. 

Quite frankly, I’m pissed. Am I right to be? And if so, what do I do about it. 

Thank you. ",80,142,452.4541850228359,GradSchool
Multiple choice test? In grad school?,,26,142,727.2619859487619,GradSchool
I assume the second panel is after he got his PhD,,2,142,763.4814535413544,GradSchool
Writing in a nutshell,,12,145,907.7863030783915,GradSchool
A brutally honest account of Imposter Syndrome; How many of us feel but hate to admit it.,,38,141,1971.2644628006137,GradSchool
I love grad school so f***ing much today.,"This morning in my small seminar on we discussed philosophies of John Stuart Mill, Kant, Rawls and Aristotle as they apply to media ethics. It was challenging and invigorating and the kind of discussion I doubt would happen anywhere outside of our ivory tower. And it was fucking amazing.

My thesis work is grueling, my new batch of undergrad students don't know who the vice president is, and it's 8 p.m. on a Friday night and I've just had a 5 Hour Energy to make it to midnight for the sake of a few drinks soon. But I love grad school, because for three hours this morning I critically examined my own ethical perspectives and walked out of class with ideas, wonderful ideas, that I get to ponder well after the class ends. Isn't learning remarkable?",43,140,2222.9098563191324,GradSchool
Science is hard,,11,141,587.2548910413544,GradSchool
Someone's getting in the spirit.,,2,142,1053.9961410413546,GradSchool
GUYS! My committee approved my PhD research plan without revisions!,"In my department, we don't have quals or comps. So everything rests on your committee meetings basically. Had my first one this morning. Was absolutely terrified. My department chair, who is an international expert in my research area, was sitting across from me throughout my whole presentation.

But it went super well! They were really interested in my research and had very little to say. Rather than offering improvements, they just wrote ""the committee is satisfied with the research plan"", which according to my supervisor is incredibly rare.

I'm just so excited and I wanted to share with someone who would understand. I love this sub and I get so much good feedback here. I honestly love grad school and I just wanted to share my positive moment. 

Wishing everyone the best with their own research!",8,142,1147.1397058561693,GradSchool
Thesis defense was this morning...,"...and I passed. I have a few minor additions and revisions I need to make before I submit my thesis to the graduate school, but that won't take much more than a day or two to get through. It feels like an immense weight has been lifted from my shoulders.

I now have an MS in Materials Science & Engineering. My thesis project was with silica optical fiber.",20,138,2392.1496364117247,GradSchool
Traumatized after finding mistake in paper,"Three weeks ago, I found a major error in one my first-author papers in response to some requested revisions from reviewers. This error invalidated the entire results section of my paper. I have worked up and redone the entire analysis, and we are about to resubmit the paper. I have a few more small analyses to run, but I feel like I'm hitting a serious mental block. I'm terrified that I've made another crucial error at some point in the analysis, and at any minute a new analysis will reveal the error. I'm having a really hard time forcing myself to work. I'm also having a hard time sleeping, socializing, and being happy. I'm staying up late night zoning out in front of the TV until I pass out, waking up every couple hours in a panic to thoughts about some new analysis that could've failed. I'm not seeing my friends, I barely spared a couple hours to see my brother before he left the country for a year, my relationship is suffering badly, I feel like I'm on the edge of fucking losing it (if I haven't already). Is this it? Do I need to drop out at this point to salvage what's left of my mental health? What the fuck do I do?",33,142,41.17972900431741,GradSchool
Melatonin folks.,"Mela -f**kin- tonin. 

Just tuck me in fam.",82,141,115.90102530061371,GradSchool
"UPDATE: Advisor let his visa expire, delaying graduation.","I was asked to keep you all updated on my [post from yesterday, ](https://www.reddit.com/r/GradSchool/comments/brx1gi/my_advisor_and_my_department_have_put_me_in_a/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=ios_share_flow_optimization&utm_term=control_2) so here’s my update: 

I met with the graduate coordinator and my advisor today. We decided that my grade will be primarily based on a presentation, and I will submit a report to supplement it. I gave each of them an outline of what I want to discuss in my report. We agreed on the content of my paper and presentation, and we agreed that if I talk about and understand each of the topics I outlined, that should be enough for an A.  Also, his visa is sorted out, making my life easier. 

Thank you for the support and encouragement! I *think* things will progress more smoothly going forward, and I’ll keep you updated on when I get my degree.",5,143,145.32293502283594,GradSchool
Fellow broke students!,"Hey all, not strictly school related, but grad school is a struggle bus financially. my equally studious bf and I test drove Hyundai’s today and got 2 $50 gift cards. Their website has details, just enter info, get coupon, be kind and upfront about what you’re doing, and boom. Fun money. Or groceries. We’re buying food and a Switch game

EDIT: also! Friens! You can supposedly do it every 6 Months according to the fine print. So long as they’re running the promo still",74,137,146.1663493746878,GradSchool
Sick of the constant self-sacrifice!!!,"ugg rant alert: I am a 5th year PhD student in a STEM field at a top tier institute in the US and I AM SO SICK OF THE CONSTANT SELF SACRIFICE EXPECTED FROM US.  One of my lab mates just asked me if I was going to come in on weekends after I (finally) start my real job to finish revisions on my paper.  I physically had to bit my tongue to stop from screaming.   Let me explain why a simple question got me so outraged.  I work for a hot shot professor (aka complete asshole) who literally told me during my first week in my rotation that he considers me a post-doc and has ""no interest in spoon feeding my lab members"".  This made my PhD incredibly difficult because not only was I independently leading a research project straight out of undergrad, but also was working on a different tissue in a different field that no one else in my lab is working on. This meant I literally had to learn all the methodology/background by myself through deep dives of literature and constant begging of help from other labs.  As a readout of how awesome a manager my PI is, the lab is now a 1/3 of its original size when I joined because no one can stand him.  I had absolutely no career counseling from my PI and had to prep for interviews by myself, which is fine because it's a known cliche that academic professors gives no fucks about you if you don't continue in academia but after I land an amazing job at a great firm that has literally single digit acceptance rate my PI response is "" wtf would they hire you, you're completely unqualified"".  Again I bit my tongue, because I'm so fucking close to the end but the blatant disrespect is exhausting.  I have friends in law school and MBA programs and I feel like they're actually encouraged to do well and praised when they work hard.  So you know #notallgradschools! It doesn't cost the PIs anything to say ""good job"" when students are doing a good job!  I don't understand why we're just expected to shut up and eat constant crap from the PI.  It just seems outrageous to me that even after pulling a big paper together and starting a 60 hr job, there's an underlying assumption that I'll come in on weekends post PhD to work for professor.  I feel like everyone in lab is scared of my boss so I'm just ranting into the dark abyss of the internet but jfc does anyone else feel this way?!?! ",35,141,644.2314651154285,GradSchool
"55,229 words - finally joined my dissertation chapters together!","I have spent the past 4 days formatting my dissertation. I feel like I have read my own dissertation about 100 times already.  Every time I read it, there is always a tiny mistake related to the style guide.

I feel like I can write a manual about Microsoft Word formatting tips after this event.  The ""section breaks"" really saved my life, and my favorite thing was rotating the big tables in the landscape direction. ;D",16,139,656.1258285413545,GradSchool
I quit my Ph.D. one year ago after dealing with an extremely toxic advisor. I wanted to share my story just in case you're in a similar situation.,"Hey r/GradSchool! I want to share my story about how working with a toxic advisor convinced me to leave my program a year ago, and where I am now that I'm out of that situation. I've seen on this subreddit that a number of you struggle with toxic advisors, and are faced with the difficult decision of what to do as a result. I want to share my experiences so that you know that **it is okay to decide ""This isn't right for me,"" and move on with something else.** Academic is often a competitive, cutthroat, toxic place for many people, and sometimes it is better to leave on your own terms before the academic system takes its toll on you. There will always be something better out there for you.

When I first began my Ph.D. program at an R1 program, I was fresh out of college and extremely excited to be involved in research. I actually enjoyed the first year-and-a-half of my graduate school career, and did a good job at attending conferences, presenting, and getting funding and fellowships (including the NSF). 

Then things started to go awry during the end of my second year. My advisor -- who had originally been supportive, if not a little distant -- had started to become exceedingly negative towards me. They showed little interest in mentoring me, yet got angry if I didn't display improvements fast enough. For example, I wouldn't receive revisions on manuscripts for months, yet I got yelled at during meetings for not having enough papers under review. It took us a year-and-a-half to get approval for an IRB protocol, simply because my advisor wouldn't review my documents. All the while, I was blamed for being unproductive in writing my results when I didn't even have any data to analyze. It was a shit-show.

My advisor even become exceedingly critical of me as a person -- not just my work, but my character. Each meeting was another insult, including gems such as ""You need therapy because you didn't take my advice about XYZ,"" ""You're a terrible mentee,"" ""You're so fucking stubborn that you want to make me rip my hair out,"" ""You only won the NSF because of my recommendation letter,"" and more. They were adamant about trying to get me to quit, and then got frustrated and angry when I said I wanted to stick with it and continue working towards being a better scientist. I would defend myself by highlighting my career successes and my efforts to continue improving my skills. My writing quality increased, my analytical abilities got sharper, and I worked closely with labmates and professors to continue growing. Unfortunately, my advisor would devalue my accomplishments, instead focusing on my limitations rather than my improvements. 

Unsurprisingly, I grew to hate meeting with my advisor. I found myself dreading any communication with them. Even seeing that I had an email or a text message from them would make me fearful and apprehensive, because I knew that chances are, I did something -- however minuscule -- that would get me chewed out as being inadequate.  Even small mistakes resulted in me being eviscerated. (I was once severely scolded for using *a word* that my advisor didn't like in a manuscript draft.) It was walking on eggshells to keep my advisor from exploding.  

After a while, I reached my tipping point during one of our meetings. When the standard slew of insults came, something this time around clicked for me, and I realized that **I did not want any of this.** I wondered why I was willingly allowing myself to work with a person who thought belittling me as part of our regular interactions was acceptable. Why was I trying to go into a field where people tear each other down in the common pursuit of science and discovery? This competition and cutthroat existence was draining on me, and after more than a year of dealing with this toxicity firsthand, I was done. 

I opted to withdraw after completing my MA thesis, which was easily the best piece of work I have produced in my academic life. To me, it was the culmination of the skills I built over the years, a thesis so well written that even my advisor had to admit that it was good. After everything was said and done, my paperwork was signed and submitted, and a few days later, I made a phone call to confirm that my MA was officially conferred. I was now fadedfigures, M.A. 

The year that followed since receiving my degree was my ""recovery period,"" where I emerged slightly blinded and bleary-eyed. As someone who was trained since college on how to be a researcher, I was taught about CVs instead of résumés. I had zero idea how to survive ""in the real world,"" so I retreated temporarily back into the world of academia where I spent the year teaching as an adjunct. I had learned during graduate school that I was great at teaching and enjoyed it, plus adjuncting was a preferable option at the time. My fiancé had another year to go before completing his degree, and I wanted to go back to grad school somewhere else. I knew I could have thrived more under better mentorship, so I was determined to return to graduate school to do everything right this time around. I spent the fall semester sending out applications. However, the time I spent outside of research showed me just how much I didn't want to return to that life.

Since I now an outsider looking in, I could re-examine the things that were presented as ""normal"" in graduate school/academia and recognize just how abnormal they were. For example, my advisor balked at the idea of a work-life balance. When a labmate mentioned that working from 7AM to 7PM daily still left folks a few hours each day for leisure, my advisor criticized that as being ""far too little time to get any *real* work done."" My advisor also demanded that people drop their extracurricular activities, and scolded anyone who spent any of their waking time doing something other than working (which I'm not exaggerating about; the actual expectation was that we would spend *all* our time focused on research). These things -- among many, *many* other examples I could give -- are seen as a generally acceptable part of academia, yet it's arguably abnormal outside of academics. 

Expecting employees to work 12+ hours a day without additional pay is against the law, yet it's fine if grad students are expected to do it. Bosses (hopefully) don't encourage their employees to drop their hobbies and extracurricular activities to work more, but it was emphasized heavily for us. Beyond that, working in a field where rejection was expected and having your work that you've spent months (perhaps years) working on torn apart for minuscule things did not appeal to me at all. I had the opportunity to potentially go back to do a Ph.D. again. But my time away from academia showed me that it was not a place I wanted to be. I asked to be removed from the applicant pool of my applied programs, and instead took the plunge and began teaching myself how to apply for ""real world"" jobs. 

Teaching myself the intricacies of résumés and cover letters took some time and practice, but eventually I got the hang of the process. Eventually, I was offered an industry job in a field I love, where I will work with friendly folks in a supportive environment. I honestly couldn't be happier with this outcome, even if it meant putting myself through a very challenging time in my career to build the skills necessary for success in my new line of work.

When it comes to the decision to quit, people withdraw from Ph.D. programs for a number of reasons. Sometimes they work in a toxic environment and don't have the energy to continue, while others realize that research isn't the career for them. No matter what, everyone has to evaluate whether it is worth it for them to continue their degrees and pursue careers in this field or to back out gracefully and seek other opportunities. For me, it took a lot longer than I'd like to admit to realize I needed out. I was conditioned to think that dropping out was failing, given how previous program dropouts were discussed by the professors. But I realized that the situation was not for me, and I took myself out.

If you're debating leaving your program for whatever reason, just know that there will always be options out there for you. Don't allow yourself to willingly work with someone who belittles you, steals your work, insults you, ignores you, or whatever else you may experience with your advisor. Academia is a small world, and at times, almost like a cult. Leaving is a hard thing to do, but sometimes, it's the best option you can take for yourself. Make the choice that is best for you, and do what you think will be best in the end. 

(I'm happy to answer any questions/provide more details if you all want them! And feel free to message me if you're currently dealing with a bad advisor and need advice from someone who has been though it.) ",22,140,781.7497058561693,GradSchool
My thesis-writing view this weekend. Fall in the Rockies.,,15,139,1108.2762799302434,GradSchool
This advisor is a winner,,3,142,1143.7498678932063,GradSchool
Just passed my Master's defense!,"The committee loved it. All I've got to do is make some spelling revisions in the paper, and then I'm free!

WOOOO!!!!",23,143,1415.0961641895026,GradSchool
The best email I've received all year. Submission 13972 is my PhD dissertation.,,10,144,1523.1704581709841,GradSchool
I just had a paper accepted for publication! Time for a celebratory dance party!,,18,141,1993.174219745058,GradSchool
On a scale from Leslie Knope to Jean Ralphio...,How douchey do you think it is to have diplomas framed in your office?,80,141,28.997194282095187,GradSchool
"Amendment to remove tax bill provisions that eliminate deductions on tuition waiver, education loan interest, and others fails","Just so everyone is aware that the House bill will still contain these gems.  Also goes to show that if these provisions in the bill were a mistake, certain members of Congress are content with continuing with the mistake.  Another interpretation, of course, is that they are entirely fine with whatever Bad Stuff transpires.  

In short, we need to act.

Email from the National Association of Graduate-Professional Students in its entirety below:

Thank you for your help and support in fighting the attack on higher education by The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Today, on November 9, the House Ways and Means Committee had their final meeting to discuss amendments to the bill. Rep. Doggett (D- TX35) introduced an amendment that would remove Sec. 1204. Sec. 1204 of the bill which are the provisions that proposes to repeal the Interest Payment on Qualified Education Loans, Tuition & Related Expenses,  Interest on United States Savings Bond, Qualified Tuition Reduction, Employer-Provided Education Assistance. The amendment also proposed to expand AOTC. Unfortunately, the amendment was voted down along party lines. Listed below are those that voted against:

Kevin Brady, Texas's 8th, 
Sam Johnson, Texas's 3rd
Devin Nunes, California's 22nd
Pat Tiberi, Ohio's 12th
Dave Reichert, Washington's 8th
Peter Roskam, Illinois's 6th
Vern Buchanan, Florida's 16th
Adrian Smith, Nebraska's 3rd
Lynn Jenkins, Kansas's 2nd
Erik Paulsen, Minnesota's 3rd
Kenny Marchant, Texas's 24th
Diane Black, Tennessee's 6th
Tom Reed, New York's 23rd
Mike Kelly, Pennsylvania's 3rd
Jim Renacci, Ohio's 16th
Pat Meehan, Pennsylvania's 7th
Kristi Noem, South Dakota's at-large
George Holding, North Carolina's 2nd
Jason T. Smith, Missouri's 8th
Tom Rice, South Carolina's 7th
David Schweikert, Arizona's 6th
Jackie Walorski, Indiana's 2nd
Carlos Curbelo, Florida's 26th
Mike Bishop, Michigan's 8th

We are tweeting out to these representatives to hold them accountable. We would like you to join us in this effort, by tweeting out too ASAP (no time better than NOW). It would be great if you can engage your constituents and ask them to do the same. We also ask that if your school is in these states, that you get as many people as possible to call their offices. The first vote in the House is expected as early as next week.

We are keeping an eye out, and will keep you updated when we hear anything! Let’s tell them that we will fight this until the end.

Sample Tweets:
@______Disappointed in your vote today on an amendment to repeal Sec. 1204. Why are you insisting on making education unaffordable for us? #ReworkTheReform

@________You voted down an amendment to repeal Sec. 1204, Can you explain why you want to remove accessibility of higher education by slashing grad student stipends? #ReworkTheReform

@ ________ Built for growth? Ways and Means R’s just voted to stunt the U.S.’s innovation by voting down an amendment to strike Sec. 1204. #ReworkTheReform

@_________  Do you think education is not important? You voted to hurt teachers, students, and graduate students when you voted down the amendment to Sec. 1204. #ReworkTheReform

@_______ Tuition waivers and education tax deductions may not be important to you, but votes are! Why did you vote down an amendment to strike Sec. 1204? #ReworkTheReform

@________ Education improves our society, why are you against it? Why did you vote down an amendment to repeal Sec. 1204. #ReworkTheReform

@_______ Cures for diseases, improvements in technology & improving the economy doesn’t happen without education. Why did you vote down an amendment to repeal Sec. 1204? #ReworkTheReform",21,141,704.220296133947,GradSchool
"Shower thought: After you get a PhD, every meeting you go to becomes a doctor's appointment.",^ yep.,16,138,1015.9768817820951,GradSchool
The best buzzer-beater of my life: I managed to successfully defend my master's thesis on the very last day (and very last timeslot) for defense! I'm finally graduating!,"It's all thanks to my thesis adviser, he never gave up on me, and I am so, so thankful he was so patient and helpful. After my defense, he gave me a hug and congratulated me. I almost cried. 

I thought I wouldn't be able to finish it. But it's finally here, and I've finished all my revisions, and submitted my bound thesis to the university. 

Everybody's told me I look so much happier. It's like a huge weight's been lifted off my chest.",10,139,120.4989303932063,GradSchool
"A ""gold standard"" study finds deleting Facebook is great for your mental health | A unique study praised for its rigor finds numerous upsides to deactivating your Facebook account",,27,138,257.12377993024336,GradSchool
Reflections on Grad School,"Reflections/rant on Graduate School:

tl;dr : Grad school sucks and if you don't need it, don't do it.

Hello everyone in this sub. For the record I did finish grad school(from my prior post year at the beginning of this year), just not as intact as I hoped I would have finished it. Going to be starting a well paying job in about a month, so I have that to look forward to (better pay and benefits than my former PI's).

But I am going to preface my reflections with a warning that my experiences in graduate school may not be similar to yours. In spite of this, there is the understanding that should be had that my experiences were very genuine.

I will be highlighting my experiences with a subtitle and then a smaller paragraph to follow, for the sake of organization.

------------

The Lies:

I can fairly say that I was lied to many times throughout my time in graduate school, whether if it were expectations for my work or expectations for what needed to be done. There were multiple instances and occasions where I was told (after asking and looking this up on my own) that I needed to do A after asking what I needed to do to proceed further with my degree, only to be told that I needed to do A, B, and C.

For example, I had a chat with my department advisor about if/when I needed to complete a paper for a department requirement at end of my first year. I was told that they don't know. Later, I was told that I needed to complete this paper by the beginning of September. I was told this in late August. Needless to say this was the beginning of the many problems in this department.

My advisor continually lied to me. I asked my advisor, my committee chair, and my department advisor what I needed to do to receive my degree. Close to when I was originally scheduled to graduate, I was told that I was on track to completing on time, and that I would be able to complete at the end of the academic year.

However, a little later on I was told that they won't let me graduate without a publication. Now, officially they never said that. This mention of a requirement for a publication was never written on any website, documentation, or email. But because of this sudden demand from my advisors in my last term, my graduation was held back by a term, which led to significant opportunity costs for me.

Simultaneously, this led to a lot of tension between my advisor and I, to the point where I deliberately stopped going into lab as much to avoid my advisor.

------

The Abuse:

I saw a lot of abusive behavior in my department. Either abusive, exploitative, gaslighting, or just Stockholm Syndrome level of mental abuse.

For example, a PhD student who was in my former department was supposed to graduate at the end of their fifth year. Only to be told last minute by her committee that they wanted that person to publish a third paper before graduation, so they didn't let this person defend. This situation lingered on for another two terms. To put the cherry on top, this candidate's stipend and tuition waiver was terminated as part of their contract with the university at the end of their fifth year, and the advisors knew this. Eventually this person graduated, but boy they had quite a few words to say about their advisor, and the only reason that they managed to finish their education was because they were married to someone making a decent income. (Otherwise they would have had to drop out.)

--------

The clusterfuck with my research project:

Here is the thing. My research project wasn't something that I proposed. It was my advisor's. Now, the biggest surprise is that my advisor had no experience in the field that they proposed that I should do research in. When I tried to do a different project, I was told no.

So I was stuck doing a project that was forced onto me that I had no experience in where my advisors didn't know how to advise me on it and it forced me to do a lot of random footwork and dead ends because my advisors couldn't advise me at all, and when it came time for advancements(or quals as they are called in many other places) they didn't know how to even evaluate me for those. Just in general, a lot of frustration.

-----------

Shitty personality conflicts within the department:

There was a significant issue in my department about how the PhD's, Master's students, and Professors treated each other.

It generally went along the lines of casual verbal abuse towards the Master's students from the PhD's and the Professors, Professors who had no concept of the value of time and effort that had to be extracted from PhD students and Master's students, and PhD students who were brown nosing the Professors while ignoring or dismissing any points that Master's students bring up.

Especially professors who didn't understand the amount of difference that spending another year is to a person who is essentially at the end of their career by being a 50 year old tenured professor vs a grad student who makes little above minimum wage.

-----------

Lab meetings, the most dreadful time waster ever made:

My lab meetings usually consisted of everybody sitting down, and nobody speaking or saying anything until asked by the professor. Even during presentations, only one question to the presenter from each lab member during the meeting, and the rest of the questions are from the professor.

Nobody wants to be at lab meeting, everybody prefers to speak to the professor either through email or phone because nobody in the lab wanted to speak to the professor directly because the outcome of the meetings is almost always a handful of the same content repeated over and over again, the point of which would be condensed to literally 30 seconds.

If you say anything in lab meeting, you'll be put on blast. If you make a comment that was unnecessary from the PI's POV, you'll be put on blast.

If you ask a stupid question, you won't be put on blast. You'll be hit with a thermonuclear warhead from the PI for ""wasting time"".

-----------

Holy shit you read this far. Have a cookie. 🍪

-----------

Imposter syndrome:

All I can say is, I never got over imposter syndrome.(Depsite everybody's encouraging comments, although I do admit they did give me a decent pep-up at the time. Thanks guys.)

I felt like a phoney every day I was there. And even after I graduated, it never went away. The only thing that I could do was to live with it.

-------------

The dreadful sunk cost fallacy:

And when a lot of people hear my laments about grad school, the usual responses are ""if it's so bad, then quit"" or ""sounds like they're using you for free labor"". Which were true. I contemplated quitting many times, I was very self-aware that they were using me for free labor.

The only reason I didn't quit was because I had already put so much time and effort into it, that quitting wasn't a choice. If I quit, something that I put an easy 10% of my life into would have been for nothing. Imagine doing something pointless for 10% of your life? I would jump off a bridge if that happened.

---------------

My eventual mental degradation:

I'll be honest. My mental health deteriorated after being stuck in a department like this for even two/three years. I don't know how the other grad students dealt with this. (Okay, actually I do. A lot of alcoholism, casual drug use, deflection, rationalising their conditions to normalcy, hooking up withing the department only to realise that anti-fraternisation clauses in most companies exist for a reason, and forming cliques within the department.)

I was depressed, I had issues with overeating, my sex drive went to shit, I didn't care about my research any more. There were many days where the only thing that happened was that I went to school, went back home, and curled up in bed. The thing is, this wasn't something that was exclusive to me.

My deskmate expressed the exact same thing, that she went to lab, did work, went back home, and sometimes couldn't get out of her bed the next day because of how depressed she was.

I actually can't remember a single day in grad school where I didn't want to kill myself. Jump off a bridge, drink stuff in the lab, hop in front of a car. I don't do drugs or drink recreationally either, I just felt a great deal of self loathing during my time there.

And I know that these symptoms weren't exclusive to only me in the department, because there are suicide prevention posters pasted next to every lab in my department.

---------------

In conclusion, I did get my degree, albeit not entirely unscathed. It was a long road of unhappiness, moved goalposts, being gaslit so hard I felt like a drunk Christmas ham, publicly humiliated by my PI, and grey days after grey days after grey days. I wish I could take back the years and time that I spent on this for something that could have been happier, but I know I can't.

I just need to live with my mistake.

For those of you guys/gals out there in the webworks who are still in grad school, you're fighting the good fight. Bad days and sad nights. Kudos to you guys, seriously kudos because I can't imagine doing this for 5 or 6 years. I'd definitely go insane if I did that.

So, I'm done with grad school. And I'll never post in this sub ever again, thankfully.

Ciao.

------------

edit: Didn't think I'd do an update edit, but forgot to mention the number of times that my former PI's been calling me about not responding to their emails. At least 2 times a day. It's been over a month.",57,136,371.9879234487619,GradSchool
NC State program supports PhDs who want industry careers,,6,140,437.45949752283593,GradSchool
Does anyone feel like gradschool brought your worst demons against yourself?,"Even in my previous degree program, I procrastinated, avoided dealing with some work and often worked nonstop before a deadline. But in gradschool, I feel like those issues have been magnified, and my voice of ""you are a failure"" is louder than ever. 

Anyways, rant over. On the brighter side, I think I'm finally starting to see the end of the tunnel, working on dealing with the demons one at a time..

Edit- also, apparently screaming metal calms my demons

Edit2- thank y'all for sharing your struggles. I feel less alone. ",33,138,966.5930276154285,GradSchool
"Yes, yes, yes.","You counted right, that's three yes, and together they mean that my PhD dissertation has been accepted!

Not gonna lie, it has been a nightmare of revisions, rewriting, waiting for feedback, fighting with layout first and submission afterwards, and on and on...

I actually already started a postdoc, so it seems that my professional future is going to be in academia. Therefore, here's my personal oath for when I am a renowned professor:

* I will never have my student rewrite a paragraph the way it was before I made her rewrite it the first time.
* I will always reply to my student's email within reasonable time.
* If my student cannot proof my hypothesis within reasonable time, I will accept that my hypothesis is wrong.
* I will treat my student's writing code and debugging as a central part of her job, understanding how time-consuming it is.
* I will always behave, under any circumstance, like a human being.

Feel free to improve the list while I drink myself silly in celebration :)",6,139,1447.3403655783916,GradSchool
Female scientists respond to Tim Hunt's comments about females in labs with #Distractinglysexy,,48,136,1586.8943007635767,GradSchool
It's GRE day and I don't feel confident at all,"How much is Grad School really gonna care if I bomb this?

Edit: beat my target by 9 points, thank you all for the encouragement!",35,137,29.39071280061371,GradSchool
Do you guys ever skip over entire chapters when reading books?,"Now, I know that it is okay to skip over chapters of books, especially depending on one’s interests and/or research. But I’ve been slowly trying to break myself of the “must read everything mentality” since taking courses that require 1 book (plus articles) read a week, and still struggle with this dilemma. Do you guys ever just skip over entire chapters? Or do you at least give it the ol’ read the first (and last) sentence of each paragraph? In the past, I found that as long as I have enough to speak about i class that this is never a problem. However, I always feel bad about this in terms of not giving the work (which can be extremely interesting) enough attention or feeling like I might be arriving to class under prepared. Or worse, I might forget everything I “read” because I skimmed too hard.",58,138,30.156129467280376,GradSchool
I’m a PhD candidate!,"my program has us do two qualifying exams. first one was very bumpy and i had to rewrite the written portion. second went smooth and i passed with no contingencies! just happy! 

",8,139,245.09948594876187,GradSchool
Failed my PhD Viva exam and have a few job offers at stake...,"So my PhD viva earlier this week did not go so well. The examiners decided not to award me a PhD, but instead will allow me to graduate with an MPhil after corrections to my thesis in a few months. I am absolutely devastated by this result especially since I have a few (conditional) post doc job offers hinging on the condition I get a PhD. I’m not sure what to do now because my career in academia is pretty much over...

Edit: Basically the examiners found a critical error in my thesis that invalidated the results of an entire chapter. Somehow my supervisor missed it when he went over my thesis. Although I guess its my fault that I didn't spot it earlier.",29,139,354.3870785413544,GradSchool
"Strategies for getting out of bed, during self-driven research...","Not motivated by my research right now, find it hard to get out of bed and end up adding an hour with snooze.
",68,137,483.3389535413545,GradSchool
Successful defense!,"I successfully defended my thesis on Friday!

One of my committee members nearly didn't pass me on the grounds that my thesis is ""too long and too schizophrenic"" and ""will never get published!"" until I told him that we intended the thesis to be that way and that our pub plans are to break it into two or three pieces for publication.  He scoffed but my advisor backed me up and I explained the pieces.

(I should get one or two full-length pubs from it, plus a smaller ""research note"" level pub.)

This committee member is known for being a jackass and did everything he could before and during my presentation to rattle me and wanted to intimidate me during my orals. He scoffed at the number of people present and said some prof must have been giving extra credit. (My response, ""No, I actually have friends."" His retort, ""Pffft, hard to believe..."") He huffed and puffed and groaned all through my presentation. He openly told me he didn't give a shit about my topic.

I am not known for my skill in dealing with people in general and people like this used to rattle me SO bad.  But not this time. My advisor was BEAMING afterward. He said I handled that dude better than he thought was possible.  

I found the monster's weakness and oh, believe me, other grad students will be told.",17,141,933.3725530783914,GradSchool
"As a 6th year Chem PhD who considered quitting first two years, just received offer to work my dream job","I'm sharing this to spread HOPE

I've observed many younger grad students here who, like me,  have had a hard time of it. The first year of grad school was one of the most challenging experiences of my life. 16-hours a week of TAing lab, full-time classes, AND doing research in lab. I considered, constantly, just getting the MS and leaving; it was brutal. 

I was low on funding, and TA'd for 3 years before getting an NSF grant. I stuck it out. 

And in the end, it paid of; I'm getting a job at the company I've had in mind since I was a teen. With it paying in good excess of six figures, it's about 4.5x my current graduate student stipend. After you graduate, you move on to a whole new stage of life, and it's QUITE a transition. 

For the people soldiering on as I did for years, follow your dreams (by always starting with the end in mind, and work backwards to your goals) and good luck. ",22,141,1018.5997868746878,GradSchool
I'm a graduate student writing a thesis on ancient Crete. It's little things like this that make me happy,,7,136,1690.2537452080212,GradSchool
Submitted my thesis and got approved to graduate today!,"Couldn't be happier! As much as I love this subreddit, I'm happy to be graduating out of it in a few weeks. :)",2,133,167.92225215246557,GradSchool
feeling of cognitive decline over the years of being in grad school,"Has anyone experienced this? I'm in my 5th year of grad school have also been experiencing more anxiety/depression lately and have found myself having very low cognitive abilities to the point of completely missing small details when reading e-mails or just writing things. I feel like I'm having a general decline in cognitive function and I'm not sure if it's depression related or something else.  

EDIT: Thanks for all your comments and advice, there's an odd comfort knowing that I'm not alone in experiencing this...",52,136,679.8271016895026,GradSchool
I passed my thesis proposal this morning (with flying colours)!!!,,24,137,1426.0075183561692,GradSchool
I just successfully defended my thesis. Robert Baratheon of Game of Thrones accurately sums up my feelings.,,15,134,2279.835921133947,GradSchool
TA Win - sharing happiness from this morning's tutorial,"This is my second year TAing a first year course (the same one). I mark assignments (there is one almost every week) and exams, and I teach a one-hour tutorial for \~30 students once a week. This year I decided to try out an anonymous feedback & questions box and it is *so worth it*. I give every student an index card at the beginning of class, and get everybody to return their card to my box before they leave. If they don't have a comment, they just put it in blank. Then I go through the cards after class and try to answers the questions/incorporate their feedback into the next tutorial. Usually I get a few things that people didn't understand, and often there are duplicates (multiple people wanted to spend more time reviewing a previous assignment, for example). I sometimes get one saying something that they liked about how I taught, and one or two that have a smiley face.

Today, I got a ""Have a good day"" with a big smile, and a ""Look for something nice to smile about today. Your happiness is worth it. :)""

These students are awesome and I am so happy right now. This made my day. I'm tired and stressed out - I'm currently both a full-time PhD student and a part-time MA student, with both a TAship and an RAship, and I've got a massive scholarship application due at 8pm today. Before I go back to desperately trying to revise my scholarship proposal and rewrite my MA thesis, I'm taking a minute to savour this moment, and be grateful.",7,134,18.288710485798894,GradSchool
How do you remember what was done in the papers that you have read?,"After you finish reading your paper, what do you do to remember about each paper? Do you keep little notes/descriptions?I highlight the most important parts of the paper but I realized this is not good enough after I found myself reading a paper that I have read at least twice before.

Edit: Thank you guys. So many replies. I will go through each of them during the weekend. Till then, a big hug from a fellow grad student.",83,134,251.29078224505818,GradSchool
Last Christmas (of my PhD) - Lyrics,"This is what my brain does at 2am instead of letting me sleep...any suggestions for improvements are welcome. 

Happy holidays!

> **Last Christmas (of my PhD) - Lyrics**
--
> Chorus:
> 
> Last Christmas, I gave you my draft
> 
> But the very next day you gave it away
> 
> This year, I'll save it for peers
> 
> I'll give it to someone who gets it
> 
> x2
> 
> 
> --
> 
> Once written and twice cried
> 
> I keep my reference
> 
> But you still catch my lies
> 
> Tell me, LaTeX
> 
> Do you recognize me?
> 
> Well, it's been a year
> 
> It doesn't surprise me
> 
> (My thesis!) I wrapped it up and sent it
> 
> With a note saying, ""I wrote you"" and signed it
> 
> Now, I know what a noob I've been
> 
> But if you pass me now
> 
> I'd never fail you again
> 
> --
> 
> Chorus:
> 
> Last Christmas, I gave you my draft
> 
> But the very next day you gave it away
> 
> This year, I'll save me from tears
> 
> I'll give it to someone who gets it
> 
> x2
> 
> --
> 
> A conference room, plen'ries with tired eyes
> 
> I'm listening to you, while compiling files
> 
> MS Word, I thought you were someone to rely on
> 
> VIM? I guess it was a shoulder to cry on
> 
> --
> 
> My name on the cover, I'm proud of this draft
> 
> Oh, man, what a bother, I almost tore it apart
> 
> Now, I've done a real draft you'll never fail me again
> 
> --
> 
> Chorus:
> 
> Last Christmas, I gave you my draft
> 
> But the very next day you gave it away
> 
> This year, I'll save me from fears
> 
> I'll give it to someone who gets it
> 
> x2
> 
> --
> 
> 
> My name on the cover, I'm proud of this draft
> 
> Oh, man, what a bother, I almost tore it apart
> 
> Now, I've done a real draft you'll never fail me again...

Edit: made some minor changes",4,134,303.0712567820952,GradSchool
For those afraid to speak up in seminars or meetings...,,3,139,503.19513409690995,GradSchool
Happy grant writing season!,,2,133,735.2697290043174,GradSchool
Let's compile a list of products and items that are life savers in grad school,"I'll start:

-I got the heavy duty Visine eye drops that eliminate all red from your eyes in minutes, pretty sure they're meant for stoners and not over-worked grad students but they help me look not as tired 
",135,135,754.813710485799,GradSchool
Had the proposal defense last week...,,6,135,894.8260600228359,GradSchool
HIFW my adviser asks me to revise my budget for my grant proposal but doesn't tell me what's wrong with it.,,8,132,1323.101036874688,GradSchool
I adore my students and they are the highlight of my day. A quote you can all probably relate to.,"Today while TAing a lab:
Student 1: ""How many of those thermoses of coffee do you drink a day?""
Me: ""I don't know, 2 or so, and an energy drink?""
Student 1: ""how much sleep do you get?""
Student 2: ""Oh my GOD you can't just ask grad students how much they sleep! That's rude!""",44,139,1672.6992544672805,GradSchool
Congratulations /r/GradSchool! You're the subreddit of the day!,,24,136,1676.751858633947,GradSchool
Does a PhD over-qualify you for certain job/career positions? Would also love to hear what your day-to-day life is like for anyone outside of academia.,"TLDR: Will a PhD over-qualify me for positions, and force me into managerial positions only? I essentially want to be a workhorse, and I absolutely love the bench, but I have no desire whatsoever to be a PI or a manager. I would love a job that is my passion but not my obsession--one that is an 8-5 with a reliable structure that lets me have a life outside of work. I would love to hear from about what is outside of academia, or really what's outside of being a PI. What's your daily life like? Thanks all!


*********


Hi all,

I am in my second year of my PhD program (pre-qual). Based on the fact that I don’t want to really manage or lead a team, and I certainly do not want my own lab, I am wondering if getting a PhD is really where I should be heading. When I joined my program, it was partly because I didn’t really know what else to do. I had heard that just having a BS in microbiology doesn’t get you very far, and that a Master’s is essentially equivalent to a BS with two years of work experience. It seemed to me at the time that a PhD was ""required"" to obtaining a stable job.


The thing is, however, that I absolutely know I do not want to stay in academia. I dislike the publish or perish attitude and the competitive, almost frantic nature to be always working and always at the absolute forefront of knowledge that academia is steeped in. It constantly makes me feel like I do not know enough and like I am never doing enough. I love being at the bench and I love doing data analysis and communicating with people. I think military type/biosecurity research is the coolest thing, as well as astromicrobiology and agricultural engineering/ag infectious disease research (not sure what to call this). I also think clinical science, like an MLS, or anything in industry, would be incredibly rewarding.
Based on these career paths, is the PhD really necessary for what I am aiming for, or will it over-qualify me for the types of jobs I would love to work? Would love to hear anyone's experiences/feedback.

 Thanks very much",57,138,9.357020670984078,GradSchool
I’m starting my 3rd year and also love my PhD!,"I want to chime in and give another positive post for y’all. I’m about to start my third year of my PhD and I’ve had, for the most part, the most wonderful experience possible here. 

My adviser is perfect, he’s supportive when I ask for help but leaves me alone and gives me a lot of freedom otherwise. My labmates are close friends and they make work a lot of fun. The facilities are amazing and I get to work with some really fantastic technology and our lab has so much nice equipment that makes my work easier. My undergrad is great and my research projects are going well. Everything I’ve tried has worked pretty much and I haven’t hit a wall (YET). 

I’m enjoying my experience a lot and it’s better than I could have even expected when I was an undergrad applying to grad school. I also love the city I live in and my roommate is awesome. Not everybody has a bad experience y’all!!

Edit: I’m definitely not trying to say that others don’t have a bad time or anything. My undergrad was by far the worst four years of my life and I get it that not everybody is going to get lucky like I did with grad school. But I just wanted to share some hope for new people and those considering grad school that it ain’t always bad!",23,132,80.42399983765075,GradSchool
Anybody felt that he/she is the worst one in his/her cohort at the beginning?,"If so, what happened afterwards? Did you catch up later?

I am super nervous now. Not sure how to survive grad school.",43,131,423.058247522836,GradSchool
Just got kicked out (out of the blue) and now I don't know what to do,"Hi everyone
I don't want this post to come off as me complaining or anything, I just need advice because I genuinely was so blindsided that I have no idea what to do next and I'd appreciate any advice.
Here's the (shortened) story:
So this is the end of my first year in my PhD in History (I already have an MA from a previous institution). I have gotten three B+s over the course of this year (3 quarters). Also as background, I have pretty bad mental health issues that I have been actively working on all year with a psychologist and psychiatrist, but obviously they come into play in an environment like a PhD program. For instance, one of my B+s came after there was a report of an active shooter in my apartment building on campus where I was on lockdown for 5 hours after a SWAT team came through everyone's apartment with guns and stuff to clear everything out. I had class that evening that my professor still made me attend (during which she made jokes about shooters) and my final was due a week after that. Naturally, it was not my best work, especially since I disclosed to the prof and the DGS that I have been suffering from PTSD and GAD for about a decade now.
Anyway, I get to about a week and a half ago, and my advisor is still talking about next steps for next year, working on language training, and even fighting to get me into classes for this summer to train me for the upcoming school year. Then, on Friday, I was summoned into a meeting out of the blue with my DGS (which my advisor, unbeknownst to me, was also at). They immediately told me ""We have decided you and history are just not a good fit,"" that they were ""dismissing me,"" and that ""5 to 10 years from now, we hope that you can look back on this and realize this was the moment that put you on the track to where you *should* be."" Throughout the whole thing (which lasted maybe 5 minutes) my advisor never spoke to me and simply watched me cry without ever even meeting my eyes. 
I was never given any indication the entire year that anything was unsatisfactory with my performance from my advisor, and I know multiple second and third years who had a similar gpa/grade record as I have their first years who were simply put on probation with no problem. I was not given a reason as to why I was dismissed (to be fair, my fight-or-flight response kicked into overdrive in that meeting and I ran out as soon as possible). I also still have yet to receive any email or text from my advisor about the situation.
I feel incredibly betrayed, disappointed, embarrassed, and quite frankly insanely stupid right now. I just signed a lease on an apartment here in the city, I have no family around here, and I have no clue what to do next. I would appreciate any advice you all could give me on what I should do next. I'm not from a family that is involved with academia so I have no one to ask about these things besides one or two friends here.
Thank you to anyone who read this far and I really appreciate you all!
",72,134,485.0675646524656,GradSchool
Master's Thesis Proposal - :(,"I need to vent somewhere. I did my Master's Thesis Proposal in chemistry this week and I am utterly humiliated. I couldn't answer almost any of the questions, all the graduate students were there to witness it, and I was shredded apart by all my committee members. I've been crying for the last two days, and it's whittled down to me cringing every couple of hours thinking back to what they said to me. Now I'm just so angry at the world. Angry that my supervisor didn't even edit my proposal before I submitted it, angry that nobody from my lab showed up to support me, angry that I was given a project  that had no clear plan and resources. I just don't know how I am going to get through it all, I'm supposed to defend soon, and I just don't know how I'll have enough results by then. I'm just traumatized, I don't even think I can look at my project anymore :( Is this supposed to be this hard? 

EDIT: Thank you all so much for your support and all your words of encouragement, I'm so grateful for this community! I wrote out all the questions I got wrong and I'm going to go through them all, and have an honest conversation with my advisor this week. I know I can get through this and I feel a lot better reading through the comments. Thank you all again :)",36,134,535.3666387265396,GradSchool
Time to talk about why so many postgrads have poor mental health,,64,135,562.32607159691,GradSchool
"""Can I cite my own opinion as a source?"" - Undergrad",It took everything I had not to stare at him open mouthed for a few seconds. The kid is a junior too. ,48,134,740.2038262265396,GradSchool
It's reading week at my school. I just spent seven hours grading their assignments and this is how I feel.,,21,137,1699.7289419672804,GradSchool
When I wake up to a passive aggressive email from my supervisor,,10,133,1713.4735137265395,GradSchool
IT WORKS! IT WORKS! IT F*CKING WORKS!,"Year and a half long effort involving two iterations of a $10k design and I've had ZERO success up until now. I sit down and retake some measurements this morning to report on exactly HOW the setup was failing and all of a sudden... K'POW! It turns on. 

I am... SUPER excited right now. It didn't work yesterday, it may not work tomorrow, it may not even work later today, but it works RIGHT FUCKING NOW! WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


</rave>",17,134,2160.1603655783915,GradSchool
"Thanks to grad school, I lost my savings account, abs, and free time, all in the blink of an eye. Does anyone ever make up what they lost in terms of lifestyle after finishing?","I'm pursuing an MS in accounting, undergrad is in history. I feel like even if I land a great job after earning my degree, I'll never feel motivated to get in shape again, spend cautiously again, and make time to go make friends/date. Do I really want to spend my mid-20's doing this? Did you all find the MS was worth it?",53,130,337.61849057839146,GradSchool
Death and Grad Schoo,"Hi,

My mother is in palliative care for a very aggressive form of lung-cancer. She's not quite at hospice level, but getting there. She's not expect to live to Christmas.

For those of you who have experienced the death of a family member or loved one during grad school, do you have any advice or stories about what you went through? How did it affect your school work/research?

Regards.

&#x200B;

Also - fuck cancer.

&#x200B;

p.s. - Let's pretend I meant to say, ""Schoo.""

&#x200B;

\*\*EDIT - Thank you to everyone who commented. It really helps. I'm sorry if I didn't reply to your post. I assure you, I read and upvoted them. I also really appreciate the prayers and offers of support. If you're dealing with hard times right now, I want to extend my offer to help as well. \*E-hug\*",37,133,388.90733317098403,GradSchool
"""I Worked With Avital Ronell. I Believe Her Accuser.""",,41,133,410.1367776154285,GradSchool
France is offering US scientists 4-year grants to move to the country and do research,,7,133,850.0218123376507,GradSchool
just finally got a rejection after the journal having my article for a YEAR AND A HALF,,30,130,1175.3316155783914,GradSchool
My current mood...,,5,133,1183.3514766895025,GradSchool
"Congrats Young Scientists, You Face The Worst Research Funding In 50 Years",,39,130,1686.2130970598728,GradSchool
Your Quarterly Reminder: BACKUP YOUR DATA. That is all.,,34,133,1715.8252498376507,GradSchool
How I feel meeting with my advisor,,7,137,2043.8511757635767,GradSchool
I have so much resentment,"I am set to hand in my thesis next week, and I am an emotional wreck. The last four years of my life absolutely destroyed me, and right now it seems like it just will never end.

I got almost no supervision in these four years. I got a lot of passive-aggressive comments about how much of a failure I am, though. 4 years in this department in which I am ignored at best, treated like an inconvenience at worst. None of my colleagues seem to understand how much harder it is to do a PhD basically on your own. How hard it is on your self-esteem to be in an environment that has no word of encouragement or constrictive feedback for you. 

After these 4 years of being on my own, I spent a couple of weeks prodding my supervisor on his schedule for the last weeks before my submission, so that he would be able to include time to look at my drafts and give me feedback. He says ok sure, he can do it, he has time, it is all ok.

So it is 7 days before my submission day, and he hasn't finished reading even my introduction. It seems like his office is never empty of other students with which he is spending hours and hours talking to. It's not like he is a great supervisor to all of these people either... it just seems like all of those meetings have to happen now.

I don't understand this. Why would he hire someone who he seems convinced that is a failure? Why would he accept the role of supervisor to someone, and then spend 4 years questioning any of this person's attempts at doing research, while providing zero guidance on what path to follow instead?

For 3 years my self confidence dwindled, I became depressed, ruined my long-term relationship, failed to integrate in a foreign country where it is already super hard to integrate. For all this time I felt like an absolute failure, because that's how I was treated. 

Maybe I am not the smartest cookie in the jar, but I did a great job before this. I had way more publications than anyone else here had before starting the PhD. And now I'm not even done yet, and job offers are raining at me. People seem to appreciate me, my ideas and my work, even though I haven't published anything in 3 years. 

I am so so tired. I got out of the office and came home because I just couldn't keep myself from crying. I just want this to be over soon.",28,189,0.47393907234348637,GradSchool
Mid semester as a grad student feels like...," [https://imgur.com/gallery/sAqmCJN](https://imgur.com/gallery/sAqmCJN) 

 I have a departmental presentation next friday, an ACS presentation this friday, 90 homework assignments to grade, an exam to proctor on thursday, then 90 exams to grade, and my wife's birfday is this weekend. Oh yea, and that research thing for this research degree i started.",1,13,0.38087194271385666,GradSchool
I can feel myself spiraling into a depressive episode and I don't know what to say to my advisor *trigger warning*,"Some background on me: 

I'm a 3rd year grad student in a chemistry PhD program, and I've had mental issues my whole life. Depression, anxiety, self harm, suicidal thoughts, the whole shebang. In college I was formally diagnosed and got therapy and antidepressants, and things got a lot better. Now I am still on that medication and doing therapy, and things have generally gotten a lot better. 

Lately my mental health has been really bad. I'm anxious and paranoid almost all the time, I've been dissociating again (that's where I feel really light-headed and I briefly forget who I am and what's happening, like I'm outside my body), and it's hard for me to think clearly, my mind is fuzzy. 

My therapist is booked until next month, and I can start anti-anxiety meds but my Dr is booked until December. I can tell I'm starting to spiral, but what I'm really nervous about is what do I tell my advisor? Do I tell him at all? Do I ask for a day off to recover? My first impulse is to carry on as normal, push through and hope things get better soon without me harming myself. He's a nice guy, but very professional. We don't really talk about our personal lives, and I've never mentioned my medical history. For example, I didn't even know he was married to someone in our department until I had been working for him for a while. 

Has anyone been in a similar situation?",2,3,0.06562888715830113,GradSchool
Tips on getting over perfectionism? It's eating away my time!,"Question is in the title. Just started grad school this September for my Master's! 

I've always been a keener and in my undergrad it was fairly easy to put in the time and get good grades. However, I'm quickly learning grad school is a whole different beast and now I'm easily dumping countless hours into getting even small projects juuuuuuust right. It's driving me crazy and with big term papers due in 6 weeks among lots of smaller assignments I'm getting concerned about my time management.

Any advice on helping a newbie get to the point and decently their manage their time before they lose their marbles and become a hermit for all of November?",2,6,0.2710918501212641,GradSchool
"Halfway through the fall semester and we’re still alive! I believe in you all, even the humanities people.",I jest. I believe wholeheartedly that without the humanities life would be magnitudes less joyful.,9,96,0.9493325908620049,GradSchool
"Last year, after 3 years of my PhD, I had no results (or anything written). This week, I handed in my thesis.","I'm writing this because my PhD really damaged my self-esteem, so I want to practice being proud of myself. So yeah, I'm proud of saving my PhD pretty much all by myself, with some help from my colleagues. I had no idea it was even possible to go from 0 - 100% in the space of a year.

I also wanted to write this to give hope to other students who are deep into their PhD and feel behind, especially those who have been left behind by their supervisors (like I was). So I'm happy to chat or offer advice related to those problems here/in PMs -- too many of us suffer in silence and it's super important to talk about these problems earlier rather than later.",47,485,1.377966850121264,GradSchool
What was your GRE score and did you get into your Grad school of choice?,"Hi all, I'm a senior graduating this upcoming spring semester and was hoping to gauge the approximate GRE scores that current & past r/GradSchool students have gotten, along with whether or not you successfully got into your graduate school program of choice.

If you would please fill out this short, 3-question survey below, that would be great:
https://forms.gle/NQLrGND7HRH3U29R7

Any discussion is welcome. I'm pretty unsure on what percentile I should be aiming for in order to reasonably expect to get into a few decent grad school programs. If it matters for discussion, I'm planning on pursuing a Master of Science Degree in Biochemistry.",0,1,0.009332590862004846,GradSchool
YC Students - List of all the internships and new grad jobs opening at the Y Combinator backed startups,,0,1,0.02139277604719003,GradSchool
NSF GRFP Personal Statement,In my personal statement I acknowledge the reasons I've decided to go into the field that I am in but I wasn't sure how/if there were ways to integrate my chronic pain disability into it as well (as an example of 1. persistence even in the face of adversity and 2. somewhat of an explanation for my lower gpa) and was wondering if anyone else here had done that and had any advice on how to make it something that really does highlight my strengths rather than a pity/sob story because that isn't what I want but it is something that is fundamental to who I am.,0,2,0.02672842419533818,GradSchool
"""Personal Statement""","hey all, 

currently applying for my MBA overseas in London. one of the requirements is to provide a personal statement. It doesn't specify anything else other than that, not even word count. Kind of vague, but then again it is my first time doing this so it may just be my ignorance. can anyone give me some pointers on where/how to start? What should it be about? Maybe what are some brainstorming techniques you used when doing this?

thanks in advance.",0,2,0.05022379456570855,GradSchool
Is it good enough to graduate with a Masters thesis and a 4-pages research?,"Hi there,
Am a masters student in my 3 semester. I have only one paper published so far, I was the secondary author of that paper.
Right now I’m working on my thesis and a short paper to be published in a jornal. Basically, the short paper is a small overview of my thesis. 
So, I want to know, is graduating with these papers in my resume would be enough for me to purse PhD? 
My major is computer networks.",3,3,0.3269946278990419,GradSchool
Grad School Anxiety,"Hey everyone. Hopefully this is the right thread to post in. If not please direct me to the right group! Otherwise I'm just going to jump right into my issue.   


I'm currently in my last year of graduate school. So far the experience has been really exciting but incredibly draining all throughout my application process until now. I got into the program I am in now and was really proud of myself. But in terms of my academic ability and more importantly my writing ability I've always felt like it wasn't on the same level as my peers. This probably stems from issues that I had moving from NYC to upstate NY where many of my peers and teachers were white people. I'm a person of color and I don't think that I also communicated in a way that they were use to. In addition, teachers from my childhood years use to make me feel like complete shit when I wrote a paper or submitted any work.   


This semester in particular I've felt at lost. Many of the articles that I am assigned for one class in particular feel inaccessible to me. The language that is used is confusing and for lack of a better word a bit pretentious. It feels like the person writing thinks that using more complex language makes their argument or idea more credible or valid. Due to my own insecurities I've felt incredibly stupid this entire semester because I'm not able to tie in the readings and lectures when I'm writing papers, etc. In fact, I had sort of a breakdown today because of it.  


My professor in that class emailed me back a paper and stated that my use of the readings and application are thin. He felt like the paper was rushed and not well thought out. I won't like reading that truly hurt me and once again made me feel like I shouldn't be in grad school.  


I guess I'm just looking for advice. How would you approach this situation? How can I express to my Professor that that readings aren't accessible to me. That I'm having a hard time following how the papers ad readings tie together. I don't want to be rude to him but I'm angry, hurt, and frustrated. Has anyone else experienced something like this?   


I'd appreciate any and all helpful comments.",3,1,0.08705249826941225,GradSchool
Tips for peer reviewing a review article?,"Hey all,

Just wondering if anyone out there has done this before. I’ve done research articles before and have a decent system, but I’ve never had to peer review a review article before. I’m supposed to meet with my advisor later in the week to discuss, and am wondering what kinds of things I should be looking for",1,1,0.11099925752867151,GradSchool
Labmate continually signing up for presentations and only presenting her undergrad’s data?,"A non traditional grad student who joined our lab a year after me has recently been displaying bad behavior. Initially she was put in a hard position to manage two undergrads over the summer but since then she had plagiarized one of their posters (literally just put herself as first author), only given research updates showing their data (re- peak fitting for no seeming reason- one of the undergrads has been on the project longer than she was), and now she is presenting a senior group member’s unpublished data without their permission. Several times she has talked to me, a senior group member as if she and my boss are the PIs  (at one point referring to her undergrads and herself as her “group”). 

I understand that she was put in a bad position but she isn’t collecting data (I think she has collected a total of 2 sets of data in almost a year) and continually takes 2-4 hour lunch breaks when she isn’t watching Netflix on the computer. The last thing is that she continually orders gas tanks to go into a shared lab space (that happens to be a rad lab) without telling anyone and several people have to cover for her job.

I am posting to see if I should approach my boss (seeing as she is presenting again this week, for the third time as a second year) or confront her about taking other people’s data. I guess it seems like she is just asserting herself like a position in industry (I do chemistry) but she isn’t even post comps yet.",6,25,0.8212538871583012,GradSchool
How do you set yourself up to be studious?,"I'm in my second year of graduate school. Despite loving academia and really wanting to make a career out of it. I'm, honestly, not the best student. Highschool was a joke and I really didn't develop good study skills in undergrad. I'm just wondering what y'all do to help you focus and do work/research outside of class. Also, we all got this!",11,12,0.6609413871583012,GradSchool
"Looking to pick up a masters in finance/statistics, what are some schools that I should be looking at?","
I'm currently an accounting major at a state school with a 3.9 GPA in Texas, graduating in May 2020. I'm thinking of changing my major into a more quantitative role. I'm about to take the GMAT soon and send out my transcripts/test scores. What are some of the best MSF grad schools in the U.S that I should be looking at? I have a full time offer with a private equity accounting firm so I'm able to get work experience if needed.

(posted this on /r/FinancialCareers but not many have responded)",1,0,0.19200620197311594,GradSchool
Thinking I'll probably drop out,"I made a horrible mistake. I went with a non-thesis degree when I should have done a thesis. My chances of ever working in research are basically zero at this point. I've tried to switch to a thesis program, but to no avail. If anyone here is looking to apply to grad school, follow my advice: don't slack off when it comes to finding advisors. It's a massive pain, but the alternative is worse.",0,0,0.19461036863978262,GradSchool
Do I need Physics II Lab for Pharmaceutical Science PhD?," Hi there,

I'm looking to apply to Pharmaceutical Science PhD programs around the U.S. in a couple years when I get my Bachelor's. I only have one more semester to get pre-req's in before starting a program, and it's pretty full. I'm taking Physics I and lab this semester, but I'm hoping I could maybe just take Physics II without the lab next semester without it hurting my grad school application. Any advice is appreciated, thanks!",2,0,0.209355739010153,GradSchool
